# NIV84 1 Samuel — converted from PDF (AGES Digital Library transcription of the New International Version, 1984 edition); source PDF pages 628-705
1:1	There was a certain man from Ramathaim, a Zuphite [Or from Ramathaim Zuphim] from the hill country of Ephraim, whose name was Elkanah son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite.
1:2	He had two wives; one was called Hannah and the other Peninnah. Peninnah had children, but Hannah had none.
1:3	Year after year this man went up from his town to worship and sacrifice to the LORD Almighty at Shiloh, where Hophni and Phinehas, the two sons of Eli, were priests of the LORD.
1:4	Whenever the day came for Elkanah to sacrifice, he would give portions of the meat to his wife Peninnah and to all her sons and daughters.
1:5	But to Hannah he gave a double portion because he loved her, and the LORD had closed her womb.
1:6	And because the LORD had closed her womb, her rival kept provoking her in order to irritate her.
1:7	This went on year after year. Whenever Hannah went up to the house of the LORD, her rival provoked her till she wept and would not eat.
1:8	Elkanah her husband would say to her, “Hannah, why are you weeping? Why don’t you eat? Why are you downhearted? Don’t I mean more to you than ten sons?”
1:9	Once when they had finished eating and drinking in Shiloh, Hannah stood up. Now Eli the priest was sitting on a chair by the doorpost of the LORD’s temple. [That is, tabernacle]
1:10	In bitterness of soul Hannah wept much and prayed to the LORD.
1:11	And she made a vow, saying, “O LORD Almighty, if you will only look upon your servant’s misery and remember me, and not forget your servant but give her a son, then I will give him to the LORD for all the days of his life, and no razor will ever be used on his head.”
1:12	As she kept on praying to the LORD, Eli observed her mouth.
1:13	Hannah was praying in her heart, and her lips were moving but her voice was not heard. Eli thought she was drunk
1:14	and said to her, “How long will you keep on getting drunk? Get rid of your wine.”
1:15	“Not so, my lord,” Hannah replied, “I am a woman who is deeply troubled. I have not been drinking wine or beer; I was pouring out my soul to the LORD.
1:16	Do not take your servant for a wicked woman; I have been praying here out of my great anguish and grief.”
1:17	Eli answered, “Go in peace, and may the God of Israel grant you what you have asked of him.”
1:18	She said, “May your servant find favour in your eyes.” Then she went her way and ate something, and her face was no longer downcast.
1:19	Early the next morning they arose and worshipped before the LORD and then went back to their home at Ramah. Elkanah lay with Hannah his wife, and the LORD remembered her.
1:20	So in the course of time Hannah conceived and gave birth to a son. She named him Samuel, [Samuel sounds like the Hebrew for heard of God.] saying, “Because I asked the LORD for him.”
1:21	When the man Elkanah went up with all his family to offer the annual sacrifice to the LORD and to fulfil his vow,
1:22	Hannah did not go. She said to her husband, “After the boy is weaned, I will take him and present him before the LORD, and he will live there always.”
1:23	“Do what seems best to you,” Elkanah her husband told her. “Stay here until you have weaned him; only may the LORD make good his [Masoretic Text; Dead Sea Scrolls, Septuagint and Syriac your] word.” So the woman stayed at home and nursed her son until she had weaned him.
1:24	After he was weaned, she took the boy with her, young as he was, along with a three-year-old bull, [Dead Sea Scrolls, Septuagint and Syriac; Masoretic Text with three bulls] an ephah [That is, probably about 3/5 bushel (about 22 litres)] of flour and a skin of wine, and brought him to the house of the LORD at Shiloh.
1:25	When they had slaughtered the bull, they brought the boy to Eli,
1:26	and she said to him, “As surely as you live, my lord, I am the woman who stood here beside you praying to the LORD.
1:27	I prayed for this child, and the LORD has granted me what I asked of him.
1:28	So now I give him to the LORD. For his whole life he shall be given over to the LORD.” And he worshipped the LORD there.
2:1	Then Hannah prayed and said: “My heart rejoices in the LORD; in the LORD my horn [Horn here symbolises strength; also in verse 10.] is lifted high. My mouth boasts over my enemies, for I delight in your deliverance.
2:2	“There is no-one holy [Or no Holy One] like the LORD; there is no-one besides you; there is no Rock like our God.
2:3	“Do not keep talking so proudly or let your mouth speak such arrogance, for the LORD is a God who knows, and by him deeds are weighed.
2:4	“The bows of the warriors are broken, but those who stumbled are armed with strength.
2:5	Those who were full hire themselves out for food, but those who were hungry hunger no more. She who was barren has borne seven children, but she who has had many sons pines away.
2:6	“The LORD brings death and makes alive; he brings down to the grave [Hebrew Sheol] and raises up.
2:7	The LORD sends poverty and wealth; he humbles and he exalts.
2:8	He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the needy from the ash heap; he seats them with princes and has them inherit a throne of honour. “For the foundations of the earth are the LORD’s; upon them he has set the world.
2:9	He will guard the feet of his saints, but the wicked will be silenced in darkness. “It is not by strength that one prevails;
2:10	those who oppose the LORD will be shattered. He will thunder against them from heaven; the LORD will judge the ends of the earth. “He will give strength to his king and exalt the horn of his anointed.”
2:11	Then Elkanah went home to Ramah, but the boy ministered before the LORD under Eli the priest.
2:12	Eli’s sons were wicked men; they had no regard for the LORD.
2:13	Now it was the practice of the priests with the people that whenever anyone offered a sacrifice and while the meat was being boiled, the servant of the priest would come with a three-pronged fork in his hand.
2:14	He would plunge it into the pan or kettle or cauldron or pot, and the priest would take for himself whatever the fork brought up. This is how they treated all the Israelites who came to Shiloh.
2:15	But even before the fat was burned, the servant of the priest would come and say to the man who was sacrificing, “Give the priest some meat to roast; he won’t accept boiled meat from you, but only raw.”
2:16	If the man said to him, “Let the fat be burned up first, and then take whatever you want,” the servant would then answer, “No, hand it over now; if you don’t, I’ll take it by force.”
2:17	This sin of the young men was very great in the LORD’s sight, for they [Or men] were treating the LORD’s offering with contempt.
2:18	But Samuel was ministering before the LORD — a boy wearing a linen ephod.
2:19	Each year his mother made him a little robe and took it to him when she went up with her husband to offer the annual sacrifice.
2:20	Eli would bless Elkanah and his wife, saying, “May the LORD give you children by this woman to take the place of the one she prayed for and gave to the LORD.” Then they would go home.
2:21	And the LORD was gracious to Hannah; she conceived and gave birth to three sons and two daughters. Meanwhile, the boy Samuel grew up in the presence of the LORD.
2:22	Now Eli, who was very old, heard about everything his sons were doing to all Israel and how they slept with the women who served at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting.
2:23	So he said to them, “Why do you do such things? I hear from all the people about these wicked deeds of yours.
2:24	No, my sons; it is not a good report that I hear spreading among the LORD’s people.
2:25	If a man sins against another man, God [Or the judges] may mediate for him; but if a man sins against the LORD, who will intercede for him?” His sons, however, did not listen to their father’s rebuke, for it was the LORD’s will to put them to death.
2:26	And the boy Samuel continued to grow in stature and in favour with the LORD and with men.
2:27	Now a man of God came to Eli and said to him, “This is what the LORD says: `Did I not clearly reveal myself to your father’s house when they were in Egypt under Pharaoh?
2:28	I chose your father out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to go up to my altar, to burn incense, and to wear an ephod in my presence. I also gave your father’s house all the offerings made with fire by the Israelites.
2:29	Why do you [The Hebrew is plural.] scorn my sacrifice and offering that I prescribed for my dwelling? Why do you honour your sons more than me by fattening yourselves on the choice parts of every offering made by my people Israel?’
2:30	“Therefore the LORD, the God of Israel, declares: `I promised that your house and your father’s house would minister before me for ever.’ But now the LORD declares: `Far be it from me! Those who honour me I will honour, but those who despise me will be disdained.
2:31	The time is coming when I will cut short your strength and the strength of your father’s house, so that there will not be an old man in your family line
2:32	and you will see distress in my dwelling. Although good will be done to Israel, in your family line there will never be an old man.
2:33	Every one of you that I do not cut off from my altar will be spared only to blind your eyes with tears and to grieve your heart, and all your descendants will die in the prime of life.
2:34	“`And what happens to your two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, will be a sign to you — they will both die on the same day.
2:35	I will raise up for myself a faithful priest, who will do according to what is in my heart and mind. I will firmly establish his house, and he will minister before my anointed one always.
2:36	Then everyone left in your family line will come and bow down before him for a piece of silver and a crust of bread and plead, “Appoint me to some priestly office so that I can have food to eat.”’“
3:1	The boy Samuel ministered before the LORD under Eli. In those days the word of the LORD was rare; there were not many visions.
3:2	One night Eli, whose eyes were becoming so weak that he could barely see, was lying down in his usual place.
3:3	The lamp of God had not yet gone out, and Samuel was lying down in the temple [That is, tabernacle] of the LORD, where the ark of God was.
3:4	Then the LORD called Samuel. Samuel answered, “Here I am.”
3:5	And he ran to Eli and said, “Here I am; you called me.” But Eli said, “I did not call; go back and lie down.” So he went and lay down.
3:6	Again the LORD called, “Samuel!” And Samuel got up and went to Eli and said, “Here I am; you called me.” “My son,” Eli said, “I did not call; go back and lie down.”
3:7	Now Samuel did not yet know the LORD: The word of the LORD had not yet been revealed to him.
3:8	The LORD called Samuel a third time, and Samuel got up and went to Eli and said, “Here I am; you called me.” Then Eli realised that the LORD was calling the boy.
3:9	So Eli told Samuel, “Go and lie down, and if he calls you, say, `Speak, LORD, for your servant is listening.’“ So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
3:10	The LORD came and stood there, calling as at the other times, “Samuel! Samuel!” Then Samuel said, “Speak, for your servant is listening.”
3:11	And the LORD said to Samuel: “See, I am about to do something in Israel that will make the ears of everyone who hears of it tingle.
3:12	At that time I will carry out against Eli everything I spoke against his family — from beginning to end.
3:13	For I told him that I would judge his family for ever because of the sin he knew about; his sons made themselves contemptible, [Masoretic Text; an ancient Hebrew scribal tradition and Septuagint sons blasphemed God] and he failed to restrain them.
3:14	Therefore, I swore to the house of Eli, `The guilt of Eli’s house will never be atoned for by sacrifice or offering.’“
3:15	Samuel lay down until morning and then opened the doors of the house of the LORD. He was afraid to tell Eli the vision,
3:16	but Eli called him and said, “Samuel, my son.” Samuel answered, “Here I am.”
3:17	“What was it he said to you?” Eli asked. “Do not hide it from me. May God deal with you, be it ever so severely, if you hide from me anything he told you.”
3:18	So Samuel told him everything, hiding nothing from him. Then Eli said, “He is the LORD; let him do what is good in his eyes.”
3:19	The LORD was with Samuel as he grew up, and he let none of his words fall to the ground.
3:20	And all Israel from Dan to Beersheba recognised that Samuel was attested as a prophet of the LORD.
3:21	The LORD continued to appear at Shiloh, and there he revealed himself to Samuel through his word.
4:1	And Samuel’s word came to all Israel. Now the Israelites went out to fight against the Philistines. The Israelites camped at Ebenezer, and the Philistines at Aphek.
4:2	The Philistines deployed their forces to meet Israel, and as the battle spread, Israel was defeated by the Philistines, who killed about four thousand of them on the battlefield.
4:3	When the soldiers returned to camp, the elders of Israel asked, “Why did the LORD bring defeat upon us today before the Philistines? Let us bring the ark of the LORD’s covenant from Shiloh, so that it [Or he] may go with us and save us from the hand of our enemies.”
4:4	So the people sent men to Shiloh, and they brought back the ark of the covenant of the LORD Almighty, who is enthroned between the cherubim. And Eli’s two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
4:5	When the ark of the LORD’s covenant came into the camp, all Israel raised such a great shout that the ground shook.
4:6	Hearing the uproar, the Philistines asked, “What’s all this shouting in the Hebrew camp?” When they learned that the ark of the LORD had come into the camp,
4:7	the Philistines were afraid. “A god has come into the camp,” they said. “We’re in trouble! Nothing like this has happened before.
4:8	Woe to us! Who will deliver us from the hand of these mighty gods? They are the gods who struck the Egyptians with all kinds of plagues in the desert.
4:9	Be strong, Philistines! Be men, or you will be subject to the Hebrews, as they have been to you. Be men, and fight!”
4:10	So the Philistines fought, and the Israelites were defeated and every man fled to his tent. The slaughter was very great; Israel lost thirty thousand foot soldiers.
4:11	The ark of God was captured, and Eli’s two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, died.
4:12	That same day a Benjamite ran from the battle line and went to Shiloh, his clothes torn and dust on his head.
4:13	When he arrived, there was Eli sitting on his chair by the side of the road, watching, because his heart feared for the ark of God. When the man entered the town and told what had happened, the whole town sent up a cry.
4:14	Eli heard the outcry and asked, “What is the meaning of this uproar?” The man hurried over to Eli,
4:15	who was ninety-eight years old and whose eyes were set so that he could not see.
4:16	He told Eli, “I have just come from the battle line; I fled from it this very day.” Eli asked, “What happened, my son?”
4:17	The man who brought the news replied, “Israel fled before the Philistines, and the army has suffered heavy losses. Also your two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God has been captured.”
4:18	When he mentioned the ark of God, Eli fell backwards off his chair by the side of the gate. His neck was broken and he died, for he was an old man and heavy. He had led [Traditionally judged] Israel for forty years.
4:19	His daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was pregnant and near the time of delivery. When she heard the news that the ark of God had been captured and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she went into labour and gave birth, but was overcome by her labour pains.
4:20	As she was dying, the women attending her said, “Don’t despair; you have given birth to a son.” But she did not respond or pay any attention.
4:21	She named the boy Ichabod, [Ichabod means no glory.] saying, “The glory has departed from Israel” — because of the capture of the ark of God and the deaths of her father-in-law and her husband.
4:22	She said, “The glory has departed from Israel, for the ark of God has been captured.”
5:1	After the Philistines had captured the ark of God, they took it from Ebenezer to Ashdod.
5:2	Then they carried the ark into Dagon’s temple and set it beside Dagon.
5:3	When the people of Ashdod rose early the next day, there was Dagon, fallen on his face on the ground before the ark of the LORD! They took Dagon and put him back in his place.
5:4	But the following morning when they rose, there was Dagon, fallen on his face on the ground before the ark of the LORD! His head and hands had been broken off and were lying on the threshold; only his body remained.
5:5	That is why to this day neither the priests of Dagon nor any others who enter Dagon’s temple at Ashdod step on the threshold.
5:6	The LORD’s hand was heavy upon the people of Ashdod and its vicinity; he brought devastation upon them and afflicted them with tumours. [Hebrew; Septuagint and Vulgate tumours. And rats appeared in their land, and death and destruction were throughout the city]
5:7	When the men of Ashdod saw what was happening, they said, “The ark of the god of Israel must not stay here with us, because his hand is heavy upon us and upon Dagon our god.”
5:8	So they called together all the rulers of the Philistines and asked them, “What shall we do with the ark of the god of Israel?” They answered, “Have the ark of the god of Israel moved to Gath.” So they moved the ark of the God of Israel.
5:9	But after they had moved it, the LORD’s hand was against that city, throwing it into a great panic. He afflicted the people of the city, both young and old, with an outbreak of tumours. [Or with tumours in the groin (see Septuagint)]
5:10	So they sent the ark of God to Ekron. As the ark of God was entering Ekron, the people of Ekron cried out, “They have brought the ark of the god of Israel round to us to kill us and our people.”
5:11	So they called together all the rulers of the Philistines and said, “Send the ark of the god of Israel away; let it go back to its own place, or it [Or he] will kill us and our people.” For death had filled the city with panic; God’s hand was very heavy upon it.
5:12	Those who did not die were afflicted with tumours, and the outcry of the city went up to heaven.
6:1	When the ark of the LORD had been in Philistine territory for seven months,
6:2	the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners and said, “What shall we do with the ark of the LORD? Tell us how we should send it back to its place.”
6:3	They answered, “If you return the ark of the god of Israel, do not send it away empty, but by all means send a guilt offering to him. Then you will be healed, and you will know why his hand has not been lifted from you.”
6:4	The Philistines asked, “What guilt offering should we send to him?” They replied, “Five gold tumours and five gold rats, according to the number of the Philistine rulers, because the same plague has struck both you and your rulers.
6:5	Make models of the tumours and of the rats that are destroying the country, and pay honour to Israel’s god. Perhaps he will lift his hand from you and your gods and your land.
6:6	Why do you harden your hearts as the Egyptians and Pharaoh did? When he [That is, God] treated them harshly, did they not send the Israelites out so that they could go on their way?
6:7	“Now then, get a new cart ready, with two cows that have calved and have never been yoked. Hitch the cows to the cart, but take their calves away and pen them up.
6:8	Take the ark of the LORD and put it on the cart, and in a chest beside it put the gold objects you are sending back to him as a guilt offering. Send it on its way,
6:9	but keep watching it. If it goes up to its own territory, towards Beth Shemesh, then the LORD has brought this great disaster on us. But if it does not, then we shall know that it was not his hand that struck us and that it happened to us by chance.”
6:10	So they did this. They took two such cows and hitched them to the cart and penned up their calves.
6:11	They placed the ark of the LORD on the cart and along with it the chest containing the gold rats and the models of the tumours.
6:12	Then the cows went straight up towards Beth Shemesh, keeping on the road and lowing all the way; they did not turn to the right or to the left. The rulers of the Philistines followed them as far as the border of Beth Shemesh.
6:13	Now the people of Beth Shemesh were harvesting their wheat in the valley, and when they looked up and saw the ark, they rejoiced at the sight.
6:14	The cart came to the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh, and there it stopped beside a large rock. The people chopped up the wood of the cart and sacrificed the cows as a burnt offering to the LORD.
6:15	The Levites took down the ark of the LORD, together with the chest containing the gold objects, and placed them on the large rock. On that day the people of Beth Shemesh offered burnt offerings and made sacrifices to the LORD.
6:16	The five rulers of the Philistines saw all this and then returned that same day to Ekron.
6:17	These are the gold tumours the Philistines sent as a guilt offering to the LORD — one each for Ashdod, Gaza, Ashkelon, Gath and Ekron.
6:18	And the number of the gold rats was according to the number of Philistine towns belonging to the five rulers — the fortified towns with their country villages. The large rock, on which [A few Hebrew manuscripts (see also Septuagint); most Hebrew manuscripts villages as far as Greater Abel, where] they set the ark of the LORD, is a witness to this day in the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh.
6:19	But God struck down some of the men of Beth Shemesh, putting seventy [A few Hebrew manuscripts; most Hebrew manuscripts and Septuagint 50,070] of them to death because they had looked into the ark of the LORD. The people mourned because of the heavy blow the LORD had dealt them,
6:20	and the men of Beth Shemesh asked, “Who can stand in the presence of the LORD, this holy God? To whom will the ark go up from here?”
6:21	Then they sent messengers to the people of Kiriath Jearim, saying, “The Philistines have returned the ark of the LORD. Come down and take it up to your place.”
7:1	So the men of Kiriath Jearim came and took up the ark of the LORD. They took it to Abinadab’s house on the hill and consecrated Eleazar his son to guard the ark of the LORD.
7:2	It was a long time, twenty years in all, that the ark remained at Kiriath Jearim, and all the people of Israel mourned and sought after the LORD.
7:3	And Samuel said to the whole house of Israel, “If you are returning to the LORD with all your hearts, then rid yourselves of the foreign gods and the Ashtoreths and commit yourselves to the LORD and serve him only, and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.”
7:4	So the Israelites put away their Baals and Ashtoreths, and served the LORD only.
7:5	Then Samuel said, “Assemble all Israel at Mizpah and I will intercede with the LORD for you.”
7:6	When they had assembled at Mizpah, they drew water and poured it out before the LORD. On that day they fasted and there they confessed, “We have sinned against the LORD.” And Samuel was leader [Traditionally judge] of Israel at Mizpah.
7:7	When the Philistines heard that Israel had assembled at Mizpah, the rulers of the Philistines came up to attack them. And when the Israelites heard of it, they were afraid because of the Philistines.
7:8	They said to Samuel, “Do not stop crying out to the LORD our God for us, that he may rescue us from the hand of the Philistines.”
7:9	Then Samuel took a suckling lamb and offered it up as a whole burnt offering to the LORD. He cried out to the LORD on Israel’s behalf, and the LORD answered him.
7:10	While Samuel was sacrificing the burnt offering, the Philistines drew near to engage Israel in battle. But that day the LORD thundered with loud thunder against the Philistines and threw them into such a panic that they were routed before the Israelites.
7:11	The men of Israel rushed out of Mizpah and pursued the Philistines, slaughtering them along the way to a point below Beth Car.
7:12	Then Samuel took a stone and set it up between Mizpah and Shen. He named it Ebenezer, [Ebenezer means stone of help.] saying, “Thus far has the LORD helped us.”
7:13	So the Philistines were subdued and did not invade Israelite territory again. Throughout Samuel’s lifetime, the hand of the LORD was against the Philistines.
7:14	The towns from Ekron to Gath that the Philistines had captured from Israel were restored to her, and Israel delivered the neighbouring territory from the power of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
7:15	Samuel continued as judge over Israel all the days of his life.
7:16	From year to year he went on a circuit from Bethel to Gilgal to Mizpah, judging Israel in all those places.
7:17	But he always went back to Ramah, where his home was, and there he also judged Israel. And he built an altar there to the LORD.
8:1	When Samuel grew old, he appointed his sons as judges for Israel.
8:2	The name of his firstborn was Joel and the name of his second was Abijah, and they served at Beersheba.
8:3	But his sons did not walk in his ways. They turned aside after dishonest gain and accepted bribes and perverted justice.
8:4	So all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at Ramah.
8:5	They said to him, “You are old, and your sons do not walk in your ways; now appoint a king to lead [Traditionally judge; also in verses 6 and 20] us, such as all the other nations have.”
8:6	But when they said, “Give us a king to lead us,” this displeased Samuel; so he prayed to the LORD.
8:7	And the LORD told him: “Listen to all that the people are saying to you; it is not you they have rejected, but they have rejected me as their king.
8:8	As they have done from the day I brought them up out of Egypt until this day, forsaking me and serving other gods, so they are doing to you.
8:9	Now listen to them; but warn them solemnly and let them know what the king who will reign over them will do.”
8:10	Samuel told all the words of the LORD to the people who were asking him for a king.
8:11	He said, “This is what the king who will reign over you will do: He will take your sons and make them serve with his chariots and horses, and they will run in front of his chariots.
8:12	Some he will assign to be commanders of thousands and commanders of fifties, and others to plough his ground and reap his harvest, and still others to make weapons of war and equipment for his chariots.
8:13	He will take your daughters to be perfumers and cooks and bakers.
8:14	He will take the best of your fields and vineyards and olive groves and give them to his attendants.
8:15	He will take a tenth of your grain and of your vintage and give it to his officials and attendants.
8:16	Your menservants and maidservants and the best of your cattle [Septuagint; Hebrew young men] and donkeys he will take for his own use.
8:17	He will take a tenth of your flocks, and you yourselves will become his slaves.
8:18	When that day comes, you will cry out for relief from the king you have chosen, and the LORD will not answer you in that day.”
8:19	But the people refused to listen to Samuel. “No!” they said. “We want a king over us.
8:20	Then we shall be like all the other nations, with a king to lead us and to go out before us and fight our battles.”
8:21	When Samuel heard all that the people said, he repeated it before the LORD.
8:22	The LORD answered, “Listen to them and give them a king.” Then Samuel said to the men of Israel, “Everyone is to go back to his town.”
9:1	There was a Benjamite, a man of standing, whose name was Kish son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah of Benjamin.
9:2	He had a son named Saul, an impressive young man without equal among the Israelites — a head taller than any of the others.
9:3	Now the donkeys belonging to Saul’s father Kish were lost, and Kish said to his son Saul, “Take one of the servants with you and go and look for the donkeys.”
9:4	So he passed through the hill country of Ephraim and through the area around Shalisha, but they did not find them. They went on into the district of Shaalim, but the donkeys were not there. Then he passed through the territory of Benjamin, but they did not find them.
9:5	When they reached the district of Zuph, Saul said to the servant who was with him, “Come, let’s go back, or my father will stop thinking about the donkeys and start worrying about us.”
9:6	But the servant replied, “Look, in this town there is a man of God; he is highly respected, and everything he says comes true. Let’s go there now. Perhaps he will tell us what way to take.”
9:7	Saul said to his servant, “If we go, what can we give the man? The food in our sacks is gone. We have no gift to take to the man of God. What do we have?”
9:8	The servant answered him again. “Look,” he said, “I have a quarter of a shekel [That is, about 1/10 ounce (about 3 grams)] of silver. I will give it to the man of God so that he will tell us what way to take.”
9:9	(Formerly in Israel, if a man went to enquire of God, he would say, “Come, let us go to the seer,” because the prophet of today used to be called a seer.)
9:10	“Good,” Saul said to his servant. “Come, let’s go.” So they set out for the town where the man of God was.
9:11	As they were going up the hill to the town, they met some girls coming out to draw water, and they asked them, “Is the seer here?”
9:12	“He is,” they answered. “He’s ahead of you. Hurry now; he has just come to our town today, for the people have a sacrifice at the high place.
9:13	As soon as you enter the town, you will find him before he goes up to the high place to eat. The people will not begin eating until he comes, because he must bless the sacrifice; afterwards, those who are invited will eat. Go up now; you should find him about this time.”
9:14	They went up to the town, and as they were entering it, there was Samuel, coming towards them on his way up to the high place.
9:15	Now the day before Saul came, the LORD had revealed this to Samuel:
9:16	“About this time tomorrow I will send you a man from the land of Benjamin. Anoint him leader over my people Israel; he will deliver my people from the hand of the Philistines. I have looked upon my people, for their cry has reached me.”
9:17	When Samuel caught sight of Saul, the LORD said to him, “This is the man I spoke to you about; he will govern my people.”
9:18	Saul approached Samuel in the gateway and asked, “Would you please tell me where the seer’s house is?”
9:19	“I am the seer,” Samuel replied. “Go up ahead of me to the high place, for today you are to eat with me, and in the morning I will let you go and will tell you all that is in your heart.
9:20	As for the donkeys you lost three days ago, do not worry about them; they have been found. And to whom is all the desire of Israel turned, if not to you and all your father’s family?”
9:21	Saul answered, “But am I not a Benjamite, from the smallest tribe of Israel, and is not my clan the least of all the clans of the tribe of Benjamin? Why do you say such a thing to me?”
9:22	Then Samuel brought Saul and his servant into the hall and seated them at the head of those who were invited — about thirty in number.
9:23	Samuel said to the cook, “Bring the piece of meat I gave you, the one I told you to lay aside.”
9:24	So the cook took up the leg with what was on it and set it in front of Saul. Samuel said, “Here is what has been kept for you. Eat, because it was set aside for you for this occasion, from the time I said, `I have invited guests.’“ And Saul dined with Samuel that day.
9:25	After they came down from the high place to the town, Samuel talked with Saul on the roof of his house.
9:26	They rose about daybreak and Samuel called to Saul on the roof, “Get ready, and I will send you on your way.” When Saul got ready, he and Samuel went outside together.
9:27	As they were going down to the edge of the town, Samuel said to Saul, “Tell the servant to go on ahead of us” — and the servant did so — ”but you stay here awhile, so that I may give you a message from God.”
10:1	Then Samuel took a flask of oil and poured it on Saul’s head and kissed him, saying, “Has not the LORD anointed you leader over his inheritance? [Hebrew; Septuagint and Vulgate over his people Israel? You will reign over the LORD’s people and save them from the power of their enemies round about. And this will be a sign to you that the LORD has anointed you leader over his inheritance:]
10:2	When you leave me today, you will meet two men near Rachel’s tomb, at Zelzah on the border of Benjamin. They will say to you, `The donkeys you set out to look for have been found. And now your father has stopped thinking about them and is worried about you. He is asking, “What shall I do about my son?”’
10:3	“Then you will go on from there until you reach the great tree of Tabor. Three men going up to God at Bethel will meet you there. One will be carrying three young goats, another three loaves of bread, and another a skin of wine.
10:4	They will greet you and offer you two loaves of bread, which you will accept from them.
10:5	“After that you will go to Gibeah of God, where there is a Philistine outpost. As you approach the town, you will meet a procession of prophets coming down from the high place with lyres, tambourines, flutes and harps being played before them, and they will be prophesying.
10:6	The Spirit of the LORD will come upon you in power, and you will prophesy with them; and you will be changed into a different person.
10:7	Once these signs are fulfilled, do whatever your hand finds to do, for God is with you.
10:8	“Go down ahead of me to Gilgal. I will surely come down to you to sacrifice burnt offerings and fellowship offerings, [Traditionally peace offerings] but you must wait seven days until I come to you and tell you what you are to do.”
10:9	As Saul turned to leave Samuel, God changed Saul’s heart, and all these signs were fulfilled that day.
10:10	When they arrived at Gibeah, a procession of prophets met him; the Spirit of God came upon him in power, and he joined in their prophesying.
10:11	When all those who had formerly known him saw him prophesying with the prophets, they asked each other, “What is this that has happened to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?”
10:12	A man who lived there answered, “And who is their father?” So it became a saying: “Is Saul also among the prophets?”
10:13	After Saul stopped prophesying, he went to the high place.
10:14	Now Saul’s uncle asked him and his servant, “Where have you been?” “Looking for the donkeys,” he said. “But when we saw they were not to be found, we went to Samuel.”
10:15	Saul’s uncle said, “Tell me what Samuel said to you.”
10:16	Saul replied, “He assured us that the donkeys had been found.” But he did not tell his uncle what Samuel had said about the kingship.
10:17	Samuel summoned the people of Israel to the LORD at Mizpah
10:18	and said to them, “This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says: `I brought Israel up out of Egypt, and I delivered you from the power of Egypt and all the kingdoms that oppressed you.’
10:19	But you have now rejected your God, who saves you out of all your calamities and distresses. And you have said, `No, set a king over us.’ So now present yourselves before the LORD by your tribes and clans.”
10:20	When Samuel brought all the tribes of Israel near, the tribe of Benjamin was chosen.
10:21	Then he brought forward the tribe of Benjamin, clan by clan, and Matri’s clan was chosen. Finally Saul son of Kish was chosen. But when they looked for him, he was not to be found.
10:22	So they enquired further of the LORD, “Has the man come here yet?” And the LORD said, “Yes, he has hidden himself among the baggage.”
10:23	They ran and brought him out, and as he stood among the people he was a head taller than any of the others.
10:24	Samuel said to all the people, “Do you see the man the LORD has chosen? There is no-one like him among all the people.” Then the people shouted, “Long live the king!”
10:25	Samuel explained to the people the regulations of the kingship. He wrote them down on a scroll and deposited it before the LORD. Then Samuel dismissed the people, each to his own home.
10:26	Saul also went to his home in Gibeah, accompanied by valiant men whose hearts God had touched.
10:27	But some troublemakers said, “How can this fellow save us?” They despised him and brought him no gifts. But Saul kept silent.
11:1	Nahash the Ammonite went up and besieged Jabesh Gilead. And all the men of Jabesh said to him, “Make a treaty with us, and we will be subject to you.”
11:2	But Nahash the Ammonite replied, “I will make a treaty with you only on the condition that I gouge out the right eye of every one of you and so bring disgrace on all Israel.”
11:3	The elders of Jabesh said to him, “Give us seven days so that we can send messengers throughout Israel; if no-one comes to rescue us, we will surrender to you.”
11:4	When the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul and reported these terms to the people, they all wept aloud.
11:5	Just then Saul was returning from the fields, behind his oxen, and he asked, “What is wrong with the people? Why are they weeping?” Then they repeated to him what the men of Jabesh had said.
11:6	When Saul heard their words, the Spirit of God came upon him in power, and he burned with anger.
11:7	He took a pair of oxen, cut them into pieces, and sent the pieces by messengers throughout Israel, proclaiming, “This is what will be done to the oxen of anyone who does not follow Saul and Samuel.” Then the terror of the LORD fell on the people, and they turned out as one man.
11:8	When Saul mustered them at Bezek, the men of Israel numbered three hundred thousand and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
11:9	They told the messengers who had come, “Say to the men of Jabesh Gilead, `By the time the sun is hot tomorrow, you will be delivered.’“ When the messengers went and reported this to the men of Jabesh, they were elated.
11:10	They said to the Ammonites, “Tomorrow we will surrender to you, and you can do to us whatever seems good to you.”
11:11	The next day Saul separated his men into three divisions; during the last watch of the night they broke into the camp of the Ammonites and slaughtered them until the heat of the day. Those who survived were scattered, so that no two of them were left together.
11:12	The people then said to Samuel, “Who was it that asked, `Shall Saul reign over us?’ Bring these men to us and we will put them to death.”
11:13	But Saul said, “No-one shall be put to death today, for this day the LORD has rescued Israel.”
11:14	Then Samuel said to the people, “Come, let us go to Gilgal and there reaffirm the kingship.”
11:15	So all the people went to Gilgal and confirmed Saul as king in the presence of the LORD. There they sacrificed fellowship offerings [Traditionally peace offerings] before the LORD, and Saul and all the Israelites held a great celebration.
12:1	Samuel said to all Israel, “I have listened to everything you said to me and have set a king over you.
12:2	Now you have a king as your leader. As for me, I am old and grey, and my sons are here with you. I have been your leader from my youth until this day.
12:3	Here I stand. Testify against me in the presence of the LORD and his anointed. Whose ox have I taken? Whose donkey have I taken? Whom have I cheated? Whom have I oppressed? From whose hand have I accepted a bribe to make me shut my eyes? If I have done any of these, I will make it right.”
12:4	“You have not cheated or oppressed us,” they replied. “You have not taken anything from anyone’s hand.”
12:5	Samuel said to them, “The LORD is witness against you, and also his anointed is witness this day, that you have not found anything in my hand.” “He is witness,” they said.
12:6	Then Samuel said to the people, “It is the LORD who appointed Moses and Aaron and brought your forefathers up out of Egypt.
12:7	Now then, stand here, because I am going to confront you with evidence before the LORD as to all the righteous acts performed by the LORD for you and your fathers.
12:8	“After Jacob entered Egypt, they cried to the LORD for help, and the LORD sent Moses and Aaron, who brought your forefathers out of Egypt and settled them in this place.
12:9	“But they forgot the LORD their God; so he sold them into the hands of Sisera, the commander of the army of Hazor, and into the hands of the Philistines and the king of Moab, who fought against them.
12:10	They cried out to the LORD and said, `We have sinned; we have forsaken the LORD and served the Baals and the Ashtoreths. But now deliver us from the hands of our enemies, and we will serve you.’
12:11	Then the LORD sent Jerub-Baal, [Also called Gideon] Barak, [Some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac; Hebrew Bedan] Jephthah and Samuel, [Hebrew; some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac Samson] and he delivered you from the hands of your enemies on every side, so that you lived securely.
12:12	“But when you saw that Nahash king of the Ammonites was moving against you, you said to me, `No, we want a king to rule over us’ — even though the LORD your God was your king.
12:13	Now here is the king you have chosen, the one you asked for; see, the LORD has set a king over you.
12:14	If you fear the LORD and serve and obey him and do not rebel against his commands, and if both you and the king who reigns over you follow the LORD your God — good!
12:15	But if you do not obey the LORD, and if you rebel against his commands, his hand will be against you, as it was against your fathers.
12:16	“Now then, stand still and see this great thing the LORD is about to do before your eyes!
12:17	Is it not wheat harvest now? I will call upon the LORD to send thunder and rain. And you will realise what an evil thing you did in the eyes of the LORD when you asked for a king.”
12:18	Then Samuel called upon the LORD, and that same day the LORD sent thunder and rain. So all the people stood in awe of the LORD and of Samuel.
12:19	The people all said to Samuel, “Pray to the LORD your God for your servants so that we will not die, for we have added to all our other sins the evil of asking for a king.”
12:20	“Do not be afraid,” Samuel replied. “You have done all this evil; yet do not turn away from the LORD, but serve the LORD with all your heart.
12:21	Do not turn away after useless idols. They can do you no good, nor can they rescue you, because they are useless.
12:22	For the sake of his great name the LORD will not reject his people, because the LORD was pleased to make you his own.
12:23	As for me, far be it from me that I should sin against the LORD by failing to pray for you. And I will teach you the way that is good and right.
12:24	But be sure to fear the LORD and serve him faithfully with all your heart; consider what great things he has done for you.
12:25	Yet if you persist in doing evil, both you and your king will be swept away.”
13:1	Saul was thirty [A few late manuscripts of the Septuagint; Hebrew does not have thirty.] years old when he became king, and he reigned over Israel for forty-[See the round number in Acts 13:21; Hebrew does not have forty-.]two years.
13:2	Saul [Or and when he had reigned over Israel for two years, 2 he] chose three thousand men from Israel; two thousand were with him at Michmash and in the hill country of Bethel, and a thousand were with Jonathan at Gibeah in Benjamin. The rest of the men he sent back to their homes.
13:3	Jonathan attacked the Philistine outpost at Geba, and the Philistines heard about it. Then Saul had the trumpet blown throughout the land and said, “Let the Hebrews hear!”
13:4	So all Israel heard the news: “Saul has attacked the Philistine outpost, and now Israel has become an offence to the Philistines.” And the people were summoned to join Saul at Gilgal.
13:5	The Philistines assembled to fight Israel, with three thousand [Some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac; Hebrew thirty thousand] chariots, six thousand charioteers, and soldiers as numerous as the sand on the seashore. They went up and camped at Michmash, east of Beth Aven.
13:6	When the men of Israel saw that their situation was critical and that their army was hard pressed, they hid in caves and thickets, among the rocks, and in pits and cisterns.
13:7	Some Hebrews even crossed the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. Saul remained at Gilgal, and all the troops with him were quaking with fear.
13:8	He waited for seven days, the time set by Samuel; but Samuel did not come to Gilgal, and Saul’s men began to scatter.
13:9	So he said, “Bring me the burnt offering and the fellowship offerings.” [Traditionally peace offerings] And Saul offered up the burnt offering.
13:10	Just as he finished making the offering, Samuel arrived, and Saul went out to greet him.
13:11	“What have you done?” asked Samuel. Saul replied, “When I saw that the men were scattering, and that you did not come at the set time, and that the Philistines were assembling at Michmash,
13:12	I thought, `Now the Philistines will come down against me at Gilgal, and I have not sought the LORD’s favour.’ So I felt compelled to offer the burnt offering.”
13:13	“You acted foolishly,” Samuel said. “You have not kept the command the LORD your God gave you; if you had, he would have established your kingdom over Israel for all time.
13:14	But now your kingdom will not endure; the LORD has sought out a man after his own heart and appointed him leader of his people, because you have not kept the LORD’s command.”
13:15	Then Samuel left Gilgal [Hebrew; Septuagint Gilgal and went his way; the rest of the people went after Saul to meet the army, and they went out of Gilgal] and went up to Gibeah in Benjamin, and Saul counted the men who were with him. They numbered about six hundred.
13:16	Saul and his son Jonathan and the men with them were staying in Gibeah [Two Hebrew manuscripts; most Hebrew manuscripts Geba, a variant of Gibeah] of Benjamin, while the Philistines camped at Michmash.
13:17	Raiding parties went out from the Philistine camp in three detachments. One turned towards Ophrah in the vicinity of Shual,
13:18	another towards Beth Horon, and the third towards the borderland overlooking the Valley of Zeboim facing the desert.
13:19	Not a blacksmith could be found in the whole land of Israel, because the Philistines had said, “Otherwise the Hebrews will make swords or spears!”
13:20	So all Israel went down to the Philistines to have their ploughshares, mattocks, axes and sickles [Septuagint; Hebrew ploughshares] sharpened.
13:21	The price was two thirds of a shekel [Hebrew pim; that is, about 1/4 ounce (about 8 grams)] for sharpening ploughshares and mattocks, and a third of a shekel [That is, about 1/8 ounce (about 4 grams)] for sharpening forks and axes and for repointing goads.
13:22	So on the day of the battle not a soldier with Saul and Jonathan had a sword or spear in his hand; only Saul and his son Jonathan had them.
13:23	Now a detachment of Philistines had gone out to the pass at Michmash.
14:1	One day Jonathan son of Saul said to the young man bearing his armour, “Come, let’s go over to the Philistine outpost on the other side.” But he did not tell his father.
14:2	Saul was staying on the outskirts of Gibeah under a pomegranate tree in Migron. With him were about six hundred men,
14:3	among whom was Ahijah, who was wearing an ephod. He was a son of Ichabod’s brother Ahitub son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the LORD’s priest in Shiloh. No-one was aware that Jonathan had left.
14:4	On each side of the pass that Jonathan intended to cross to reach the Philistine outpost was a cliff; one was called Bozez, and the other Seneh.
14:5	One cliff stood to the north towards Michmash, the other to the south towards Geba.
14:6	Jonathan said to his young armour-bearer, “Come, let’s go over to the outpost of those uncircumcised fellows. Perhaps the LORD will act on our behalf. Nothing can hinder the LORD from saving, whether by many or by few.”
14:7	“Do all that you have in mind,” his armour-bearer said. “Go ahead; I am with you heart and soul.”
14:8	Jonathan said, “Come, then; we will cross over towards the men and let them see us.
14:9	If they say to us, `Wait there until we come to you,’ we will stay where we are and not go up to them.
14:10	But if they say, `Come up to us,’ we will climb up, because that will be our sign that the LORD has given them into our hands.”
14:11	So both of them showed themselves to the Philistine outpost. “Look!” said the Philistines. “The Hebrews are crawling out of the holes they were hiding in.”
14:12	The men of the outpost shouted to Jonathan and his armour-bearer, “Come up to us and we’ll teach you a lesson.” So Jonathan said to his armour-bearer, “Climb up after me; the LORD has given them into the hand of Israel.”
14:13	Jonathan climbed up, using his hands and feet, with his armour-bearer right behind him. The Philistines fell before Jonathan, and his armour-bearer followed and killed behind him.
14:14	In that first attack Jonathan and his armour-bearer killed some twenty men in an area of about half an acre. [Hebrew half a yoke; a “yoke” was the land ploughed by a yoke of oxen in one day.]
14:15	Then panic struck the whole army — those in the camp and field, and those in the outposts and raiding parties — and the ground shook. It was a panic sent by God. [Or a terrible panic]
14:16	Saul’s lookouts at Gibeah in Benjamin saw the army melting away in all directions.
14:17	Then Saul said to the men who were with him, “Muster the forces and see who has left us.” When they did, it was Jonathan and his armour-bearer who were not there.
14:18	Saul said to Ahijah, “Bring the ark of God.” (At that time it was with the Israelites.) [Hebrew; Septuagint “Bring the ephod.” (At that time he wore the ephod before the Israelites.)]
14:19	While Saul was talking to the priest, the tumult in the Philistine camp increased more and more. So Saul said to the priest, “Withdraw your hand.”
14:20	Then Saul and all his men assembled and went to the battle. They found the Philistines in total confusion, striking each other with their swords.
14:21	Those Hebrews who had previously been with the Philistines and had gone up with them to their camp went over to the Israelites who were with Saul and Jonathan.
14:22	When all the Israelites who had hidden in the hill country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines were on the run, they joined the battle in hot pursuit.
14:23	So the LORD rescued Israel that day, and the battle moved on beyond Beth Aven.
14:24	Now the men of Israel were in distress that day, because Saul had bound the people under an oath, saying, “Cursed be any man who eats food before evening comes, before I have avenged myself on my enemies!” So none of the troops tasted food.
14:25	The entire army [Or Now all the people of the land] entered the woods, and there was honey on the ground.
14:26	When they went into the woods, they saw the honey oozing out, yet no-one put his hand to his mouth, because they feared the oath.
14:27	But Jonathan had not heard that his father had bound the people with the oath, so he reached out the end of the staff that was in his hand and dipped it into the honeycomb. He raised his hand to his mouth, and his eyes brightened. [Or his strength was renewed]
14:28	Then one of the soldiers told him, “Your father bound the army under a strict oath, saying, `Cursed be any man who eats food today!’ That is why the men are faint.”
14:29	Jonathan said, “My father has made trouble for the country. See how my eyes brightened [Or my strength was renewed] when I tasted a little of this honey.
14:30	How much better it would have been if the men had eaten today some of the plunder they took from their enemies. Would not the slaughter of the Philistines have been even greater?”
14:31	That day, after the Israelites had struck down the Philistines from Michmash to Aijalon, they were exhausted.
14:32	They pounced on the plunder and, taking sheep, cattle and calves, they butchered them on the ground and ate them, together with the blood.
14:33	Then someone said to Saul, “Look, the men are sinning against the LORD by eating meat that has blood in it.” “You have broken faith,” he said. “Roll a large stone over here at once.”
14:34	Then he said, “Go out among the men and tell them, `Each of you bring me your cattle and sheep, and slaughter them here and eat them. Do not sin against the LORD by eating meat with blood still in it.’“ So everyone brought his ox that night and slaughtered it there.
14:35	Then Saul built an altar to the LORD; it was the first time he had done this.
14:36	Saul said, “Let us go down after the Philistines by night and plunder them till dawn, and let us not leave one of them alive.” “Do whatever seems best to you,” they replied. But the priest said, “Let us enquire of God here.”
14:37	So Saul asked God, “Shall I go down after the Philistines? Will you give them into Israel’s hand?” But God did not answer him that day.
14:38	Saul therefore said, “Come here, all you who are leaders of the army, and let us find out what sin has been committed today.
14:39	As surely as the LORD who rescues Israel lives, even if it lies with my son Jonathan, he must die.” But not one of the men said a word.
14:40	Saul then said to all the Israelites, “You stand over there; I and Jonathan my son will stand over here.” “Do what seems best to you,” the men replied.
14:41	Then Saul prayed to the LORD, the God of Israel, “Give me the right answer.” [Hebrew; Septuagint “Why have you not answered your servant today? If the fault is in me or my son Jonathan, respond with Urim, but if the men of Israel are at fault, respond with Thummim.”] And Jonathan and Saul were taken by lot, and the men were cleared.
14:42	Saul said, “Cast the lot between me and Jonathan my son.” And Jonathan was taken.
14:43	Then Saul said to Jonathan, “Tell me what you have done.” So Jonathan told him, “I merely tasted a little honey with the end of my staff. And now must I die?”
14:44	Saul said, “May God deal with me, be it ever so severely, if you do not die, Jonathan.”
14:45	But the men said to Saul, “Should Jonathan die — he who has brought about this great deliverance in Israel? Never! As surely as the LORD lives, not a hair of his head shall fall to the ground, for he did this today with God’s help.” So the men rescued Jonathan, and he was not put to death.
14:46	Then Saul stopped pursuing the Philistines, and they withdrew to their own land.
14:47	After Saul had assumed rule over Israel, he fought against their enemies on every side: Moab, the Ammonites, Edom, the kings [Masoretic Text; Dead Sea Scrolls and Septuagint king] of Zobah, and the Philistines. Wherever he turned, he inflicted punishment on them. [Hebrew; Septuagint he was victorious]
14:48	He fought valiantly and defeated the Amalekites, delivering Israel from the hands of those who had plundered them.
14:49	Saul’s sons were Jonathan, Ishvi and Malki-Shua. The name of his older daughter was Merab, and that of the younger was Michal.
14:50	His wife’s name was Ahinoam daughter of Ahimaaz. The name of the commander of Saul’s army was Abner son of Ner, and Ner was Saul’s uncle.
14:51	Saul’s father Kish and Abner’s father Ner were sons of Abiel.
14:52	All the days of Saul there was bitter war with the Philistines, and whenever Saul saw a mighty or brave man, he took him into his service.
15:1	Samuel said to Saul, “I am the one the LORD sent to anoint you king over his people Israel; so listen now to the message from the LORD.
15:2	This is what the LORD Almighty says: `I will punish the Amalekites for what they did to Israel when they waylaid them as they came up from Egypt.
15:3	Now go, attack the Amalekites and totally destroy [The Hebrew term refers to the irrevocable giving of things or persons to the LORD, often by totally destroying them; also in verses 8, 9, 15, 18, 20 and 21.] everything that belongs to them. Do not spare them; put to death men and women, children and infants, cattle and sheep, camels and donkeys.’“
15:4	So Saul summoned the men and mustered them at Telaim — two hundred thousand foot soldiers and ten thousand men from Judah.
15:5	Saul went to the city of Amalek and set an ambush in the ravine.
15:6	Then he said to the Kenites, “Go away, leave the Amalekites so that I do not destroy you along with them; for you showed kindness to all the Israelites when they came up out of Egypt.” So the Kenites moved away from the Amalekites.
15:7	Then Saul attacked the Amalekites all the way from Havilah to Shur, to the east of Egypt.
15:8	He took Agag king of the Amalekites alive, and all his people he totally destroyed with the sword.
15:9	But Saul and the army spared Agag and the best of the sheep and cattle, the fat calves [Or the grown bulls; the meaning of the Hebrew for this phrase is uncertain.] and lambs — everything that was good. These they were unwilling to destroy completely, but everything that was despised and weak they totally destroyed.
15:10	Then the word of the LORD came to Samuel:
15:11	“I am grieved that I have made Saul king, because he has turned away from me and has not carried out my instructions.” Samuel was troubled, and he cried out to the LORD all that night.
15:12	Early in the morning Samuel got up and went to meet Saul, but he was told, “Saul has gone to Carmel. There he has set up a monument in his own honour and has turned and gone on down to Gilgal.”
15:13	When Samuel reached him, Saul said, “The LORD bless you! I have carried out the LORD’s instructions.”
15:14	But Samuel said, “What then is this bleating of sheep in my ears? What is this lowing of cattle that I hear?”
15:15	Saul answered, “The soldiers brought them from the Amalekites; they spared the best of the sheep and cattle to sacrifice to the LORD your God, but we totally destroyed the rest.”
15:16	“Stop!” Samuel said to Saul. “Let me tell you what the LORD said to me last night.” “Tell me,” Saul replied.
15:17	Samuel said, “Although you were once small in your own eyes, did you not become the head of the tribes of Israel? The LORD anointed you king over Israel.
15:18	And he sent you on a mission, saying, `Go and completely destroy those wicked people, the Amalekites; make war on them until you have wiped them out.’
15:19	Why did you not obey the LORD? Why did you pounce on the plunder and do evil in the eyes of the LORD?”
15:20	“But I did obey the LORD,” Saul said. “I went on the mission the LORD assigned me. I completely destroyed the Amalekites and brought back Agag their king.
15:21	The soldiers took sheep and cattle from the plunder, the best of what was devoted to God, in order to sacrifice them to the LORD your God at Gilgal.”
15:22	But Samuel replied: “Does the LORD delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as much as in obeying the voice of the LORD? To obey is better than sacrifice, and to heed is better than the fat of rams.
15:23	For rebellion is like the sin of divination, and arrogance like the evil of idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the LORD, he has rejected you as king.”
15:24	Then Saul said to Samuel, “I have sinned. I violated the LORD’s command and your instructions. I was afraid of the people and so I gave in to them.
15:25	Now I beg you, forgive my sin and come back with me, so that I may worship the LORD.”
15:26	But Samuel said to him, “I will not go back with you. You have rejected the word of the LORD, and the LORD has rejected you as king over Israel!”
15:27	As Samuel turned to leave, Saul caught hold of the hem of his robe, and it tore.
15:28	Samuel said to him, “The LORD has torn the kingdom of Israel from you today and has given it to one of your neighbours — to one better than you.
15:29	He who is the Glory of Israel does not lie or change his mind; for he is not a man, that he should change his mind.”
15:30	Saul replied, “I have sinned. But please honour me before the elders of my people and before Israel; come back with me, so that I may worship the LORD your God.”
15:31	So Samuel went back with Saul, and Saul worshipped the LORD.
15:32	Then Samuel said, “Bring me Agag king of the Amalekites.” Agag came to him confidently, [Or him trembling, yet] thinking, “Surely the bitterness of death is past.”
15:33	But Samuel said, “As your sword has made women childless, so will your mother be childless among women.” And Samuel put Agag to death before the LORD at Gilgal.
15:34	Then Samuel left for Ramah, but Saul went up to his home in Gibeah of Saul.
15:35	Until the day Samuel died, he did not go to see Saul again, though Samuel mourned for him. And the LORD was grieved that he had made Saul king over Israel.
16:1	The LORD said to Samuel, “How long will you mourn for Saul, since I have rejected him as king over Israel? Fill your horn with oil and be on your way; I am sending you to Jesse of Bethlehem. I have chosen one of his sons to be king.”
16:2	But Samuel said, “How can I go? Saul will hear about it and kill me.” The LORD said, “Take a heifer with you and say, `I have come to sacrifice to the LORD.’
16:3	Invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what to do. You are to anoint for me the one I indicate.”
16:4	Samuel did what the LORD said. When he arrived at Bethlehem, the elders of the town trembled when they met him. They asked, “Do you come in peace?”
16:5	Samuel replied, “Yes, in peace; I have come to sacrifice to the LORD. Consecrate yourselves and come to the sacrifice with me.” Then he consecrated Jesse and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice.
16:6	When they arrived, Samuel saw Eliab and thought, “Surely the LORD’s anointed stands here before the LORD.”
16:7	But the LORD said to Samuel, `Do not consider his appearance or his height, for I have rejected him. The LORD does not look at the things man looks at. Man looks at the outward appearance, but the LORD looks at the heart.”
16:8	Then Jesse called Abinadab and made him pass in front of Samuel. But Samuel said, “The LORD has not chosen this one either.”
16:9	Jesse then made Shammah pass by, but Samuel said, “Nor has the LORD chosen this one.”
16:10	Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel, but Samuel said to him, “The LORD has not chosen these.”
16:11	So he asked Jesse, “Are these all the sons you have?” “There is still the youngest,” Jesse answered, “but he is tending the sheep.” Samuel said, “Send for him; we will not sit down [Some Septuagint manuscripts; Hebrew not gather round] until he arrives.”
16:12	So he sent and had him brought in. He was ruddy, with a fine appearance and handsome features. Then the LORD said, “Rise and anoint him; he is the one.”
16:13	So Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the presence of his brothers, and from that day on the Spirit of the LORD came upon David in power. Samuel then went to Ramah.
16:14	Now the Spirit of the LORD had departed from Saul, and an evil [Or injurious; also in verses 15, 16 and 23] spirit from the LORD tormented him.
16:15	Saul’s attendants said to him, “See, an evil spirit from God is tormenting you.
16:16	Let our lord command his servants here to search for someone who can play the harp. He will play when the evil spirit from God comes upon you, and you will feel better.”
16:17	So Saul said to his attendants, “Find someone who plays well and bring him to me.”
16:18	One of the servants answered, “I have seen a son of Jesse of Bethlehem who knows how to play the harp. He is a brave man and a warrior. He speaks well and is a fine-looking man. And the LORD is with him.”
16:19	Then Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, “Send me your son David, who is with the sheep.”
16:20	So Jesse took a donkey loaded with bread, a skin of wine and a young goat and sent them with his son David to Saul.
16:21	David came to Saul and entered his service. Saul liked him very much, and David became one of his armour-bearers.
16:22	Then Saul sent word to Jesse, saying, “Allow David to remain in my service, for I am pleased with him.”
16:23	Whenever the spirit from God came upon Saul, David would take his harp and play. Then relief would come to Saul; he would feel better, and the evil spirit would leave him.
17:1	Now the Philistines gathered their forces for war and assembled at Socoh in Judah. They pitched camp at Ephes Dammim, between Socoh and Azekah.
17:2	Saul and the Israelites assembled and camped in the Valley of Elah and drew up their battle line to meet the Philistines.
17:3	The Philistines occupied one hill and the Israelites another, with the valley between them.
17:4	A champion named Goliath, who was from Gath, came out of the Philistine camp. He was over nine feet [Hebrew was six cubits and a span (about 3 metres)] tall.
17:5	He had a bronze helmet on his head and wore a coat of scale armour of bronze weighing five thousand shekels; [That is, about 125 pounds (about 57 kilograms)]
17:6	on his legs he wore bronze greaves, and a bronze javelin was slung on his back.
17:7	His spear shaft was like a weaver’s rod, and its iron point weighed six hundred shekels. [That is, about 15 pounds (about 7 kilograms)] His shield-bearer went ahead of him.
17:8	Goliath stood and shouted to the ranks of Israel, “Why do you come out and line up for battle? Am I not a Philistine, and are you not the servants of Saul? Choose a man and have him come down to me.
17:9	If he is able to fight and kill me, we will become your subjects; but if I overcome him and kill him, you will become our subjects and serve us.”
17:10	Then the Philistine said, “This day I defy the ranks of Israel! Give me a man and let us fight each other.”
17:11	On hearing the Philistine’s words, Saul and all the Israelites were dismayed and terrified.
17:12	Now David was the son of an Ephrathite named Jesse, who was from Bethlehem in Judah. Jesse had eight sons, and in Saul’s time he was old and well advanced in years.
17:13	Jesse’s three oldest sons had followed Saul to the war: The firstborn was Eliab; the second, Abinadab; and the third, Shammah.
17:14	David was the youngest. The three oldest followed Saul,
17:15	but David went back and forth from Saul to tend his father’s sheep at Bethlehem.
17:16	For forty days the Philistine came forward every morning and evening and took his stand.
17:17	Now Jesse said to his son David, “Take this ephah [That is, probably about 3/5 bushel (about 22 litres)] of roasted grain and these ten loaves of bread for your brothers and hurry to their camp.
17:18	Take along these ten cheeses to the commander of their unit. [Hebrew thousand] See how your brothers are and bring back some assurance [Or some token; or some pledge of spoils] from them.
17:19	They are with Saul and all the men of Israel in the Valley of Elah, fighting against the Philistines.”
17:20	Early in the morning David left the flock with a shepherd, loaded up and set out, as Jesse had directed. He reached the camp as the army was going out to its battle positions, shouting the war cry.
17:21	Israel and the Philistines were drawing up their lines facing each other.
17:22	David left his things with the keeper of supplies, ran to the battle lines and greeted his brothers.
17:23	As he was talking with them, Goliath, the Philistine champion from Gath, stepped out from his lines and shouted his usual defiance, and David heard it.
17:24	When the Israelites saw the man, they all ran from him in great fear.
17:25	Now the Israelites had been saying, “Do you see how this man keeps coming out? He comes out to defy Israel. The king will give great wealth to the man who kills him. He will also give him his daughter in marriage and will exempt his father’s family from taxes in Israel.”
17:26	David asked the men standing near him, “What will be done for the man who kills this Philistine and removes this disgrace from Israel? Who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God?”
17:27	They repeated to him what they had been saying and told him, “This is what will be done for the man who kills him.”
17:28	When Eliab, David’s oldest brother, heard him speaking with the men, he burned with anger at him and asked, “Why have you come down here? And with whom did you leave those few sheep in the desert? I know how conceited you are and how wicked your heart is; you came down only to watch the battle.”
17:29	“Now what have I done?” said David. “Can’t I even speak?”
17:30	He then turned away to someone else and brought up the same matter, and the men answered him as before.
17:31	What David said was overheard and reported to Saul, and Saul sent for him.
17:32	David said to Saul, “Let no-one lose heart on account of this Philistine; your servant will go and fight him.”
17:33	Saul replied, “You are not able to go out against this Philistine and fight him; you are only a boy, and he has been a fighting man from his youth.”
17:34	But David said to Saul, “Your servant has been keeping his father’s sheep. When a lion or a bear came and carried off a sheep from the flock,
17:35	I went after it, struck it and rescued the sheep from its mouth. When it turned on me, I seized it by its hair, struck it and killed it.
17:36	Your servant has killed both the lion and the bear; this uncircumcised Philistine will be like one of them, because he has defied the armies of the living God.
17:37	The LORD who delivered me from the paw of the lion and the paw of the bear will deliver me from the hand of this Philistine.” Saul said to David, “Go, and the LORD be with you.”
17:38	Then Saul dressed David in his own tunic. He put a coat of armour on him and a bronze helmet on his head.
17:39	David fastened on his sword over the tunic and tried walking around, because he was not used to them. “I cannot go in these,” he said to Saul, “because I am not used to them.” So he took them off.
17:40	Then he took his staff in his hand, chose five smooth stones from the stream, put them in the pouch of his shepherd’s bag and, with his sling in his hand, approached the Philistine.
17:41	Meanwhile, the Philistine, with his shield-bearer in front of him, kept coming closer to David.
17:42	He looked David over and saw that he was only a boy, ruddy and handsome, and he despised him.
17:43	He said to David, “Am I a dog, that you come at me with sticks?” And the Philistine cursed David by his gods.
17:44	“Come here,” he said, “and I’ll give your flesh to the birds of the air and the beasts of the field!”
17:45	David said to the Philistine, “You come against me with sword and spear and javelin, but I come against you in the name of the LORD Almighty, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defied.
17:46	This day the LORD will hand you over to me, and I’ll strike you down and cut off your head. Today I will give the carcasses of the Philistine army to the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth, and the whole world will know that there is a God in Israel.
17:47	All those gathered here will know that it is not by sword or spear that the LORD saves; for the battle is the LORD’s, and he will give all of you into our hands.”
17:48	As the Philistine moved closer to attack him, David ran quickly towards the battle line to meet him.
17:49	Reaching into his bag and taking out a stone, he slung it and struck the Philistine on the forehead. The stone sank into his forehead, and he fell face down on the ground.
17:50	So David triumphed over the Philistine with a sling and a stone; without a sword in his hand he struck down the Philistine and killed him.
17:51	David ran and stood over him. He took hold of the Philistine’s sword and drew it from the scabbard. After he killed him, he cut off his head with the sword. When the Philistines saw that their hero was dead, they turned and ran.
17:52	Then the men of Israel and Judah surged forward with a shout and pursued the Philistines to the entrance of Gath [Some Septuagint manuscripts; Hebrew a valley] and to the gates of Ekron. Their dead were strewn along the Shaaraim road to Gath and Ekron.
17:53	When the Israelites returned from chasing the Philistines, they plundered their camp.
17:54	David took the Philistine’s head and brought it to Jerusalem, and he put the Philistine’s weapons in his own tent.
17:55	As Saul watched David going out to meet the Philistine, he said to Abner, commander of the army, “Abner, whose son is that young man?” Abner replied, “As surely as you live, O king, I don’t know.”
17:56	The king said, “Find out whose son this young man is.”
17:57	As soon as David returned from killing the Philistine, Abner took him and brought him before Saul, with David still holding the Philistine’s head.
17:58	“Whose son are you, young man?” Saul asked him. David said, “I am the son of your servant Jesse of Bethlehem.”
18:1	After David had finished talking with Saul, Jonathan became one in spirit with David, and he loved him as himself.
18:2	From that day Saul kept David with him and did not let him return to his father’s house.
18:3	And Jonathan made a covenant with David because he loved him as himself.
18:4	Jonathan took off the robe he was wearing and gave it to David, along with his tunic, and even his sword, his bow and his belt.
18:5	Whatever Saul sent him to do, David did it so successfully [Or wisely] that Saul gave him a high rank in the army. This pleased all the people, and Saul’s officers as well.
18:6	When the men were returning home after David had killed the Philistine, the women came out from all the towns of Israel to meet King Saul with singing and dancing, with joyful songs and with tambourines and lutes.
18:7	As they danced, they sang: “Saul has slain his thousands, and David his tens of thousands.”
18:8	Saul was very angry; this refrain galled him. “They have credited David with tens of thousands,” he thought, “but me with only thousands. What more can he get but the kingdom?”
18:9	And from that time on Saul kept a jealous eye on David.
18:10	The next day an evil [Or injurious] spirit from God came forcefully upon Saul. He was prophesying in his house, while David was playing the harp, as he usually did. Saul had a spear in his hand
18:11	and he hurled it, saying to himself, “I’ll pin David to the wall.” But David eluded him twice.
18:12	Saul was afraid of David, because the LORD was with David but had left Saul.
18:13	So he sent David away from him and gave him command over a thousand men, and David led the troops in their campaigns.
18:14	In everything he did he had great success, [Or he was very wise] because the LORD was with him.
18:15	When Saul saw how successful [Or wise] he was, he was afraid of him.
18:16	But all Israel and Judah loved David, because he led them in their campaigns.
18:17	Saul said to David, “Here is my older daughter Merab. I will give her to you in marriage; only serve me bravely and fight the battles of the LORD.” For Saul said to himself, “I will not raise a hand against him. Let the Philistines do that!”
18:18	But David said to Saul, “Who am I, and what is my family or my father’s clan in Israel, that I should become the king’s son-in-law?”
18:19	So [Or However,] when the time came for Merab, Saul’s daughter, to be given to David, she was given in marriage to Adriel of Meholah.
18:20	Now Saul’s daughter Michal was in love with David, and when they told Saul about it, he was pleased.
18:21	“I will give her to him,” he thought, “so that she may be a snare to him and so that the hand of the Philistines may be against him.” So Saul said to David, “Now you have a second opportunity to become my son-in-law.”
18:22	Then Saul ordered his attendants: “Speak to David privately and say, `Look, the king is pleased with you, and his attendants all like you; now become his son-in-law.’“
18:23	They repeated these words to David. But David said, “Do you think it is a small matter to become the king’s son-in-law? I’m only a poor man and little known.”
18:24	When Saul’s servants told him what David had said,
18:25	Saul replied, “Say to David, `The king wants no other price for the bride than a hundred Philistine foreskins, to take revenge on his enemies.’“ Saul’s plan was to have David fall by the hands of the Philistines.
18:26	When the attendants told David these things, he was pleased to become the king’s son-in-law. So before the allotted time elapsed,
18:27	David and his men went out and killed two hundred Philistines. He brought their foreskins and presented the full number to the king so that he might become the king’s son-in-law. Then Saul gave him his daughter Michal in marriage.
18:28	When Saul realised that the LORD was with David and that his daughter Michal loved David,
18:29	Saul became still more afraid of him, and he remained his enemy for the rest of his days.
18:30	The Philistine commanders continued to go out to battle, and as often as they did, David met with more success [Or David acted more wisely] than the rest of Saul’s officers, and his name became well known.
19:1	Saul told his son Jonathan and all the attendants to kill David. But Jonathan was very fond of David
19:2	and warned him, “My father Saul is looking for a chance to kill you. Be on your guard tomorrow morning; go into hiding and stay there.
19:3	I will go out and stand with my father in the field where you are. I’ll speak to him about you and will tell you what I find out.”
19:4	Jonathan spoke well of David to Saul his father and said to him, “Let not the king do wrong to his servant David; he has not wronged you, and what he has done has benefited you greatly.
19:5	He took his life in his hands when he killed the Philistine. The LORD won a great victory for all Israel, and you saw it and were glad. Why then would you do wrong to an innocent man like David by killing him for no reason?”
19:6	Saul listened to Jonathan and took this oath: “As surely as the LORD lives, David will not be put to death.”
19:7	So Jonathan called David and told him the whole conversation. He brought him to Saul, and David was with Saul as before.
19:8	Once more war broke out, and David went out and fought the Philistines. He struck them with such force that they fled before him.
19:9	But an evil [Or injurious] spirit from the LORD came upon Saul as he was sitting in his house with his spear in his hand. While David was playing the harp,
19:10	Saul tried to pin him to the wall with his spear, but David eluded him as Saul drove the spear into the wall. That night David made good his escape.
19:11	Saul sent men to David’s house to watch it and to kill him in the morning. But Michal, David’s wife, warned him, “If you don’t run for your life tonight, tomorrow you’ll be killed.”
19:12	So Michal let David down through a window, and he fled and escaped.
19:13	Then Michal took an idol [Hebrew teraphim; also in verse 16] and laid it on the bed, covering it with a garment and putting some goats’ hair at the head.
19:14	When Saul sent the men to capture David, Michal said, “He is ill.”
19:15	Then Saul sent the men back to see David and told them, “Bring him up to me in his bed so that I may kill him.”
19:16	But when the men entered, there was the idol in the bed, and at the head was some goats’ hair.
19:17	Saul said to Michal, “Why did you deceive me like this and send my enemy away so that he escaped?” Michal told him, “He said to me, `Let me get away. Why should I kill you?’“
19:18	When David had fled and made his escape, he went to Samuel at Ramah and told him all that Saul had done to him. Then he and Samuel went to Naioth and stayed there.
19:19	Word came to Saul: “David is in Naioth at Ramah”;
19:20	so he sent men to capture him. But when they saw a group of prophets prophesying, with Samuel standing there as their leader, the Spirit of God came upon Saul’s men and they also prophesied.
19:21	Saul was told about it, and he sent more men, and they prophesied too. Saul sent men a third time, and they also prophesied.
19:22	Finally, he himself left for Ramah and went to the great cistern at Secu. And he asked, “Where are Samuel and David?” “Over in Naioth at Ramah,” they said.
19:23	So Saul went to Naioth at Ramah. But the Spirit of God came even upon him, and he walked along prophesying until he came to Naioth.
19:24	He stripped off his robes and also prophesied in Samuel’s presence. He lay that way all that day and night. This is why people say, “Is Saul also among the prophets?”
20:1	Then David fled from Naioth at Ramah and went to Jonathan and asked, “What have I done? What is my crime? How have I wronged your father, that he is trying to take my life?”
20:2	“Never!” Jonathan replied. “You are not going to die! Look, my father doesn’t do anything, great or small, without confiding in me. Why should he hide this from me? It’s not so!”
20:3	But David took an oath and said, “Your father knows very well that I have found favour in your eyes, and he has said to himself, `Jonathan must not know this or he will be grieved.’ Yet as surely as the LORD lives and as you live, there is only a step between me and death.”
20:4	Jonathan said to David, “Whatever you want me to do, I’ll do for you.”
20:5	So David said, “Look, tomorrow is the New Moon festival, and I am supposed to dine with the king; but let me go and hide in the field until the evening of the day after tomorrow.
20:6	If your father misses me at all, tell him, `David earnestly asked my permission to hurry to Bethlehem, his home town, because an annual sacrifice is being made there for his whole clan.’
20:7	If he says, `Very well,’ then your servant is safe. But if he loses his temper, you can be sure that he is determined to harm me.
20:8	As for you, show kindness to your servant, for you have brought him into a covenant with you before the LORD. If I am guilty, then kill me yourself! Why hand me over to your father?”
20:9	“Never!” Jonathan said. “If I had the least inkling that my father was determined to harm you, wouldn’t I tell you?”
20:10	David asked, “Who will tell me if your father answers you harshly?”
20:11	“Come,” Jonathan said, “let’s go out into the field.” So they went there together.
20:12	Then Jonathan said to David: “By the LORD, the God of Israel, I will surely sound out my father by this time the day after tomorrow! If he is favourably disposed towards you, will I not send you word and let you know?
20:13	But if my father is inclined to harm you, may the LORD deal with me, be it ever so severely, if I do not let you know and send you away safely. May the LORD be with you as he has been with my father.
20:14	But show me unfailing kindness like that of the LORD as long as I live, so that I may not be killed,
20:15	and do not ever cut off your kindness from my family — not even when the LORD has cut off every one of David’s enemies from the face of the earth.”
20:16	So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, “May the LORD call David’s enemies to account.”
20:17	And Jonathan made David reaffirm his oath out of love for him, because he loved him as he loved himself.
20:18	Then Jonathan said to David: “Tomorrow is the New Moon festival. You will be missed, because your seat will be empty.
20:19	The day after tomorrow, towards evening, go to the place where you hid when this trouble began, and wait by the stone Ezel.
20:20	I will shoot three arrows to the side of it, as though I were shooting at a target.
20:21	Then I will send a boy and say, `Go, find the arrows.’ If I say to him, `Look, the arrows are on this side of you; bring them here,’ then come, because, as surely as the LORD lives, you are safe; there is no danger.
20:22	But if I say to the boy, `Look, the arrows are beyond you,’ then you must go, because the LORD has sent you away.
20:23	And about the matter you and I discussed — remember, the LORD is witness between you and me for ever.”
20:24	So David hid in the field, and when the New Moon festival came, the king sat down to eat.
20:25	He sat in his customary place by the wall, opposite Jonathan, [Septuagint; Hebrew wall. Jonathan arose] and Abner sat next to Saul, but David’s place was empty.
20:26	Saul said nothing that day, for he thought, “Something must have happened to David to make him ceremonially unclean — surely he is unclean.”
20:27	But the next day, the second day of the month, David’s place was empty again. Then Saul said to his son Jonathan, “Why hasn’t the son of Jesse come to the meal, either yesterday or today?”
20:28	Jonathan answered, “David earnestly asked me for permission to go to Bethlehem.
20:29	He said, `Let me go, because our family is observing a sacrifice in the town and my brother has ordered me to be there. If I have found favour in your eyes, let me go to see my brothers.’ That is why he has not come to the king’s table.”
20:30	Saul’s anger flared up at Jonathan and he said to him, “You son of a perverse and rebellious woman! Don’t I know that you have sided with the son of Jesse to your own shame and to the shame of the mother who bore you?
20:31	As long as the son of Jesse lives on this earth, neither you nor your kingdom will be established. Now send and bring him to me, for he must die!”
20:32	“Why should he be put to death? What has he done?” Jonathan asked his father.
20:33	But Saul hurled his spear at him to kill him. Then Jonathan knew that his father intended to kill David.
20:34	Jonathan got up from the table in fierce anger; on that second day of the month he did not eat, because he was grieved at his father’s shameful treatment of David.
20:35	In the morning Jonathan went out to the field for his meeting with David. He had a small boy with him,
20:36	and he said to the boy, “Run and find the arrows I shoot.” As the boy ran, he shot an arrow beyond him.
20:37	When the boy came to the place where Jonathan’s arrow had fallen, Jonathan called out after him, “Isn’t the arrow beyond you?”
20:38	Then he shouted, “Hurry! Go quickly! Don’t stop!” The boy picked up the arrow and returned to his master.
20:39	(The boy knew nothing of all this; only Jonathan and David knew.)
20:40	Then Jonathan gave his weapons to the boy and said, “Go, carry them back to town.”
20:41	After the boy had gone, David got up from the south side of the stone and bowed down before Jonathan three times, with his face to the ground. Then they kissed each other and wept together — but David wept the most.
20:42	Jonathan said to David, “Go in peace, for we have sworn friendship with each other in the name of the LORD, saying, `The LORD is witness between you and me, and between your descendants and my descendants for ever.’“ Then David left, and Jonathan went back to the town.
21:1	David went to Nob, to Ahimelech the priest. Ahimelech trembled when he met him, and asked, “Why are you alone? Why is no-one with you?”
21:2	David answered Ahimelech the priest, “The king charged me with a certain matter and said to me, `No-one is to know anything about your mission and your instructions.’ As for my men, I have told them to meet me at a certain place.
21:3	Now then, what have you to hand? Give me five loaves of bread, or whatever you can find.”
21:4	But the priest answered David, “I don’t have any ordinary bread to hand; however, there is some consecrated bread here — provided the men have kept themselves from women.”
21:5	David replied, “Indeed women have been kept from us, as usual whenever [Or from us in the past few days since] I set out. The men’s things [Or bodies] are holy even on missions that are not holy. How much more so today!”
21:6	So the priest gave him the consecrated bread, since there was no bread there except the bread of the Presence that had been removed from before the LORD and replaced by hot bread on the day it was taken away.
21:7	Now one of Saul’s servants was there that day, detained before the LORD; he was Doeg the Edomite, Saul’s head shepherd.
21:8	David asked Ahimelech, “Don’t you have a spear or sword here? I haven’t brought my sword or any other weapon, because the king’s business was urgent.”
21:9	The priest replied, “The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom you killed in the Valley of Elah, is here; it is wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod. If you want it, take it; there is no sword here but that one.” David said, “There is none like it; give it to me.”
21:10	That day David fled from Saul and went to Achish king of Gath.
21:11	But the servants of Achish said to him, “Isn’t this David, the king of the land? Isn’t he the one they sing about in their dances: “`Saul has slain his thousands, and David his tens of thousands’?”
21:12	David took these words to heart and was very much afraid of Achish king of Gath.
21:13	So he feigned insanity in their presence; and while he was in their hands he acted like a madman, making marks on the doors of the gate and letting saliva run down his beard.
21:14	Achish said to his servants, “Look at the man! He is insane! Why bring him to me?
21:15	Am I so short of madmen that you have to bring this fellow here to carry on like this in front of me? Must this man come into my house?”
22:1	David left Gath and escaped to the cave of Adullam. When his brothers and his father’s household heard about it, they went down to him there.
22:2	All those who were in distress or in debt or discontented gathered round him, and he became their leader. About four hundred men were with him.
22:3	From there David went to Mizpah in Moab and said to the king of Moab, “Would you let my father and mother come and stay with you until I learn what God will do for me?”
22:4	So he left them with the king of Moab, and they stayed with him as long as David was in the stronghold.
22:5	But the prophet Gad said to David, “Do not stay in the stronghold. Go into the land of Judah.” So David left and went to the forest of Hereth.
22:6	Now Saul heard that David and his men had been discovered. And Saul, spear in hand, was seated under the tamarisk tree on the hill at Gibeah, with all his officials standing round him.
22:7	Saul said to them, “Listen, men of Benjamin! Will the son of Jesse give all of you fields and vineyards? Will he make all of you commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds?
22:8	Is that why you have all conspired against me? No-one tells me when my son makes a covenant with the son of Jesse. None of you is concerned about me or tells me that my son has incited my servant to lie in wait for me, as he does today.”
22:9	But Doeg the Edomite, who was standing with Saul’s officials, said, “I saw the son of Jesse come to Ahimelech son of Ahitub at Nob.
22:10	Ahimelech enquired of the LORD for him; he also gave him provisions and the sword of Goliath the Philistine.”
22:11	Then the king sent for the priest Ahimelech son of Ahitub and his father’s whole family, who were the priests at Nob, and they all came to the king.
22:12	Saul said, “Listen now, son of Ahitub.” “Yes, my lord,” he answered.
22:13	Saul said to him, “Why have you conspired against me, you and the son of Jesse, giving him bread and a sword and enquiring of God for him, so that he has rebelled against me and lies in wait for me, as he does today?”
22:14	Ahimelech answered the king, “Who of all your servants is as loyal as David, the king’s son-in-law, captain of your bodyguard and highly respected in your household?
22:15	Was that day the first time I enquired of God for him? Of course not! Let not the king accuse your servant or any of his father’s family, for your servant knows nothing at all about this whole affair.”
22:16	But the king said, “You shall surely die, Ahimelech, you and your father’s whole family.”
22:17	Then the king ordered the guards at his side: “Turn and kill the priests of the LORD, because they too have sided with David. They knew he was fleeing, yet they did not tell me.” But the king’s officials were not willing to raise a hand to strike the priests of the LORD.
22:18	The king then ordered Doeg, “You turn and strike down the priests.” So Doeg the Edomite turned and struck them down. That day he killed eighty-five men who wore the linen ephod.
22:19	He also put to the sword Nob, the town of the priests, with its men and women, its children and infants, and its cattle, donkeys and sheep.
22:20	But Abiathar, son of Ahimelech son of Ahitub, escaped and fled to join David.
22:21	He told David that Saul had killed the priests of the LORD.
22:22	Then David said to Abiathar: “That day, when Doeg the Edomite was there, I knew he would be sure to tell Saul. I am responsible for the death of your father’s whole family.
22:23	Stay with me; don’t be afraid; the man who is seeking your life is seeking mine also. You will be safe with me.”
23:1	When David was told, “Look, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah and are looting the threshing-floors,”
23:2	he enquired of the LORD, saying, “Shall I go and attack these Philistines?” The LORD answered him, “Go, attack the Philistines and save Keilah.”
23:3	But David’s men said to him, “Here in Judah we are afraid. How much more, then, if we go to Keilah against the Philistine forces!”
23:4	Once again David enquired of the LORD, and the LORD answered him, “Go down to Keilah, for I am going to give the Philistines into your hand.”
23:5	So David and his men went to Keilah, fought the Philistines and carried off their livestock. He inflicted heavy losses on the Philistines and saved the people of Keilah.
23:6	(Now Abiathar son of Ahimelech had brought the ephod down with him when he fled to David at Keilah.)
23:7	Saul was told that David had gone to Keilah, and he said, “God has handed him over to me, for David has imprisoned himself by entering a town with gates and bars.”
23:8	And Saul called up all his forces for battle, to go down to Keilah to besiege David and his men.
23:9	When David learned that Saul was plotting against him, he said to Abiathar the priest, “Bring the ephod.”
23:10	David said, “O LORD, God of Israel, your servant has heard definitely that Saul plans to come to Keilah and destroy the town on account of me.
23:11	Will the citizens of Keilah surrender me to him? Will Saul come down, as your servant has heard? O LORD, God of Israel, tell your servant.” And the LORD said, “He will.”
23:12	Again David asked, “Will the citizens of Keilah surrender me and my men to Saul?” And the LORD said, “They will.”
23:13	So David and his men, about six hundred in number, left Keilah and kept moving from place to place. When Saul was told that David had escaped from Keilah, he did not go there.
23:14	David stayed in the desert strongholds and in the hills of the Desert of Ziph. Day after day Saul searched for him, but God did not give David into his hands.
23:15	While David was at Horesh in the Desert of Ziph, he learned that Saul had come out to take his life.
23:16	And Saul’s son Jonathan went to David at Horesh and helped him to find strength in God.
23:17	“Don’t be afraid,” he said. “My father Saul will not lay a hand on you. You shall be king over Israel, and I will be second to you. Even my father Saul knows this.”
23:18	The two of them made a covenant before the LORD. Then Jonathan went home, but David remained at Horesh.
23:19	The Ziphites went up to Saul at Gibeah and said, “Is not David hiding among us in the strongholds at Horesh, on the hill of Hakilah, south of Jeshimon?
23:20	Now, O king, come down whenever it pleases you to do so, and we will be responsible for handing him over to the king.”
23:21	Saul replied, “The LORD bless you for your concern for me.
23:22	Go and make further preparation. Find out where David usually goes and who has seen him there. They tell me he is very crafty.
23:23	Find out about all the hiding-places he uses and come back to me with definite information. [Or me at Nacon] Then I will go with you; if he is in the area, I will track him down among all the clans of Judah.”
23:24	So they set out and went to Ziph ahead of Saul. Now David and his men were in the Desert of Maon, in the Arabah south of Jeshimon.
23:25	Saul and his men began the search, and when David was told about it, he went down to the rock and stayed in the Desert of Maon. When Saul heard this, he went into the Desert of Maon in pursuit of David.
23:26	Saul was going along one side of the mountain, and David and his men were on the other side, hurrying to get away from Saul. As Saul and his forces were closing in on David and his men to capture them,
23:27	a messenger came to Saul, saying, “Come quickly! The Philistines are raiding the land.”
23:28	Then Saul broke off his pursuit of David and went to meet the Philistines. That is why they call this place Sela Hammahlekoth. [Sela Hammahlekoth means rock of parting.]
23:29	And David went up from there and lived in the strongholds of En Gedi.
24:1	After Saul returned from pursuing the Philistines, he was told, “David is in the Desert of En Gedi.”
24:2	So Saul took three thousand chosen men from all Israel and set out to look for David and his men near the Crags of the Wild Goats.
24:3	He came to the sheep pens along the way; a cave was there, and Saul went in to relieve himself. David and his men were far back in the cave.
24:4	The men said, “This is the day the LORD spoke of when he said [Or “Today the LORD is saying] to you, `I will give your enemy into your hands for you to deal with as you wish.’“ Then David crept up unnoticed and cut off a corner of Saul’s robe.
24:5	Afterwards, David was conscience-stricken for having cut off a corner of his robe.
24:6	He said to his men, “The LORD forbid that I should do such a thing to my master, the LORD’s anointed, or lift my hand against him; for he is the anointed of the LORD.”
24:7	With these words David rebuked his men and did not allow them to attack Saul. And Saul left the cave and went his way.
24:8	Then David went out of the cave and called out to Saul, “My lord the king!” When Saul looked behind him, David bowed down and prostrated himself with his face to the ground.
24:9	He said to Saul, “Why do you listen when men say, `David is bent on harming you’?
24:10	This day you have seen with your own eyes how the LORD gave you into my hands in the cave. Some urged me to kill you, but I spared you; I said, `I will not lift my hand against my master, because he is the LORD’s anointed.’
24:11	See, my father, look at this piece of your robe in my hand! I cut off the corner of your robe but did not kill you. Now understand and recognise that I am not guilty of wrongdoing or rebellion. I have not wronged you, but you are hunting me down to take my life.
24:12	May the LORD judge between you and me. And may the LORD avenge the wrongs you have done to me, but my hand will not touch you.
24:13	As the old saying goes, `From evildoers come evil deeds,’ so my hand will not touch you.
24:14	“Against whom has the king of Israel come out? Whom are you pursuing? A dead dog? A flea?
24:15	May the LORD be our judge and decide between us. May he consider my cause and uphold it; may he vindicate me by delivering me from your hand.”
24:16	When David finished saying this, Saul asked, “Is that your voice, David my son?” And he wept aloud.
24:17	“You are more righteous than I,” he said. “You have treated me well, but I have treated you badly.
24:18	You have just now told me of the good you did to me; the LORD gave me into your hands, but you did not kill me.
24:19	When a man finds his enemy, does he let him get away unharmed? May the LORD reward you well for the way you treated me today.
24:20	I know that you will surely be king and that the kingdom of Israel will be established in your hands.
24:21	Now swear to me by the LORD that you will not cut off my descendants or wipe out my name from my father’s family.”
24:22	So David gave his oath to Saul. Then Saul returned home, but David and his men went up to the stronghold.
25:1	Now Samuel died, and all Israel assembled and mourned for him; and they buried him at his home in Ramah. Then David moved down into the Desert of Maon. [Some Septuagint manuscripts; Hebrew Paran]
25:2	A certain man in Maon, who had property there at Carmel, was very wealthy. He had a thousand goats and three thousand sheep, which he was shearing in Carmel.
25:3	His name was Nabal and his wife’s name was Abigail. She was an intelligent and beautiful woman, but her husband, a Calebite, was surly and mean in his dealings.
25:4	While David was in the desert, he heard that Nabal was shearing sheep.
25:5	So he sent ten young men and said to them, “Go up to Nabal at Carmel and greet him in my name.
25:6	Say to him: `Long life to you! Good health to you and your household! And good health to all that is yours!
25:7	“`Now I hear that it is sheep-shearing time. When your shepherds were with us, we did not ill-treat them, and the whole time they were at Carmel nothing of theirs was missing.
25:8	Ask your own servants and they will tell you. Therefore be favourable towards my young men, since we come at a festive time. Please give your servants and your son David whatever you can find for them.’“
25:9	When David’s men arrived, they gave Nabal this message in David’s name. Then they waited.
25:10	Nabal answered David’s servants, “Who is this David? Who is this son of Jesse? Many servants are breaking away from their masters these days.
25:11	Why should I take my bread and water, and the meat I have slaughtered for my shearers, and give it to men coming from who knows where?”
25:12	David’s men turned round and went back. When they arrived, they reported every word.
25:13	David said to his men, “Put on your swords!” So they put on their swords, and David put on his. About four hundred men went up with David, while two hundred stayed with the supplies.
25:14	One of the servants told Nabal’s wife Abigail: “David sent messengers from the desert to give our master his greetings, but he hurled insults at them.
25:15	Yet these men were very good to us. They did not ill-treat us, and the whole time we were out in the fields near them nothing was missing.
25:16	Night and day they were a wall around us all the time we were herding our sheep near them.
25:17	Now think it over and see what you can do, because disaster is hanging over our master and his whole household. He is such a wicked man that no-one can talk to him.”
25:18	Abigail lost no time. She took two hundred loaves of bread, two skins of wine, five dressed sheep, five seahs [That is, probably about a bushel (about 37 litres)] of roasted grain, a hundred cakes of raisins and two hundred cakes of pressed figs, and loaded them on donkeys.
25:19	Then she told her servants, “Go on ahead; I’ll follow you.” But she did not tell her husband Nabal.
25:20	As she came riding her donkey into a mountain ravine, there were David and his men descending towards her, and she met them.
25:21	David had just said, “It’s been useless — all my watching over this fellow’s property in the desert so that nothing of his was missing. He has paid me back evil for good.
25:22	May God deal with David, [Some Septuagint manuscripts; Hebrew with David’s enemies] be it ever so severely, if by morning I leave alive one male of all who belong to him!”
25:23	When Abigail saw David, she quickly got off her donkey and bowed down before David with her face to the ground.
25:24	She fell at his feet and said: “My lord, let the blame be on me alone. Please let your servant speak to you; hear what your servant has to say.
25:25	May my lord pay no attention to that wicked man Nabal. He is just like his name — his name is Fool, and folly goes with him. But as for me, your servant, I did not see the men my master sent.
25:26	“Now since the LORD has kept you, my master, from bloodshed and from avenging yourself with your own hands, as surely as the LORD lives and as you live, may your enemies and all who intend to harm my master be like Nabal.
25:27	And let this gift, which your servant has brought to my master, be given to the men who follow you.
25:28	Please forgive your servant’s offence, for the LORD will certainly make a lasting dynasty for my master, because he fights the LORD’s battles. Let no wrongdoing be found in you as long as you live.
25:29	Even though someone is pursuing you to take your life, the life of my master will be bound securely in the bundle of the living by the LORD your God. But the lives of your enemies he will hurl away as from the pocket of a sling.
25:30	When the LORD has done for my master every good thing he promised concerning him and has appointed him leader over Israel,
25:31	my master will not have on his conscience the staggering burden of needless bloodshed or of having avenged himself. And when the LORD has brought my master success, remember your servant.”
25:32	David said to Abigail, “Praise be to the LORD, the God of Israel, who has sent you today to meet me.
25:33	May you be blessed for your good judgment and for keeping me from bloodshed this day and from avenging myself with my own hands.
25:34	Otherwise, as surely as the LORD, the God of Israel, lives, who has kept me from harming you, if you had not come quickly to meet me, not one male belonging to Nabal would have been left alive by daybreak.”
25:35	Then David accepted from her hand what she had brought to him and said, “Go home in peace. I have heard your words and granted your request.”
25:36	When Abigail went to Nabal, he was in the house holding a banquet like that of a king. He was in high spirits and very drunk. So she told him nothing until daybreak.
25:37	Then in the morning, when Nabal was sober, his wife told him all these things, and his heart failed him and he became like a stone.
25:38	About ten days later, the LORD struck Nabal and he died.
25:39	When David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, “Praise be to the LORD, who has upheld my cause against Nabal for treating me with contempt. He has kept his servant from doing wrong and has brought Nabal’s wrongdoing down on his own head.” Then David sent word to Abigail, asking her to become his wife.
25:40	His servants went to Carmel and said to Abigail, “David has sent us to you to take you to become his wife.”
25:41	She bowed down with her face to the ground and said, “Here is your maidservant, ready to serve you and wash the feet of my master’s servants.”
25:42	Abigail quickly got on a donkey and, attended by her five maids, went with David’s messengers and became his wife.
25:43	David had also married Ahinoam of Jezreel, and they both were his wives.
25:44	But Saul had given his daughter Michal, David’s wife, to Paltiel [Hebrew Palti, a variant of Paltiel] son of Laish, who was from Gallim.
26:1	The Ziphites went to Saul at Gibeah and said, “Is not David hiding on the hill of Hakilah, which faces Jeshimon?”
26:2	So Saul went down to the Desert of Ziph, with his three thousand chosen men of Israel, to search there for David.
26:3	Saul made his camp beside the road on the hill of Hakilah facing Jeshimon, but David stayed in the desert. When he saw that Saul had followed him there,
26:4	he sent out scouts and learned that Saul had definitely arrived. [Or had come to Nacon]
26:5	Then David set out and went to the place where Saul had camped. He saw where Saul and Abner son of Ner, the commander of the army, had lain down. Saul was lying inside the camp, with the army encamped around him.
26:6	David then asked Ahimelech the Hittite and Abishai son of Zeruiah, Joab’s brother, “Who will go down into the camp with me to Saul?” “I’ll go with you,” said Abishai.
26:7	So David and Abishai went to the army by night, and there was Saul, lying asleep inside the camp with his spear stuck in the ground near his head. Abner and the soldiers were lying round him.
26:8	Abishai said to David, “Today God has given your enemy into your hands. Now let me pin him to the ground with one thrust of my spear; I won’t strike him twice.”
26:9	But David said to Abishai, “Don’t destroy him! Who can lay a hand on the LORD’s anointed and be guiltless?
26:10	As surely as the LORD lives,” he said, “the LORD himself will strike him; either his time will come and he will die, or he will go into battle and perish.
26:11	But the LORD forbid that I should lay a hand on the LORD’s anointed. Now get the spear and water jug that are near his head, and let’s go.”
26:12	So David took the spear and water jug near Saul’s head, and they left. No-one saw or knew about it, nor did anyone wake up. They were all sleeping, because the LORD had put them into a deep sleep.
26:13	Then David crossed over to the other side and stood on top of the hill some distance away; there was a wide space between them.
26:14	He called out to the army and to Abner son of Ner, “Aren’t you going to answer me, Abner?” Abner replied, “Who are you who calls to the king?”
26:15	David said, “You’re a man, aren’t you? And who is like you in Israel? Why didn’t you guard your lord the king? Someone came to destroy your lord the king.
26:16	What you have done is not good. As surely as the LORD lives, you and your men deserve to die, because you did not guard your master, the LORD’s anointed. Look around you. Where are the king’s spear and water jug that were near his head?”
26:17	Saul recognised David’s voice and said, “Is that your voice, David my son?” David replied, “Yes it is, my lord the king.”
26:18	And he added, “Why is my lord pursuing his servant? What have I done, and what wrong am I guilty of?
26:19	Now let my lord the king listen to his servant’s words. If the LORD has incited you against me, then may he accept an offering. If, however, men have done it, may they be cursed before the LORD! They have now driven me from my share in the LORD’s inheritance and have said, `Go, serve other gods.’
26:20	Now do not let my blood fall to the ground far from the presence of the LORD. The king of Israel has come out to look for a flea — as one hunts a partridge in the mountains.”
26:21	Then Saul said, “I have sinned. Come back, David my son. Because you considered my life precious today, I will not try to harm you again. Surely I have acted like a fool and have erred greatly.”
26:22	“Here is the king’s spear,” David answered. “Let one of your young men come over and get it.
26:23	The LORD rewards every man for his righteousness and faithfulness. The LORD gave you into my hands today, but I would not lay a hand on the LORD’s anointed.
26:24	As surely as I valued your life today, so may the LORD value my life and deliver me from all trouble.”
26:25	Then Saul said to David, “May you be blessed, my son David; you will do great things and surely triumph.” So David went on his way, and Saul returned home.
27:1	But David thought to himself, “One of these days I shall be destroyed by the hand of Saul. The best thing I can do is to escape to the land of the Philistines. Then Saul will give up searching for me anywhere in Israel, and I will slip out of his hand.”
27:2	So David and the six hundred men with him left and went over to Achish son of Maoch king of Gath.
27:3	David and his men settled in Gath with Achish. Each man had his family with him, and David had his two wives: Ahinoam of Jezreel and Abigail of Carmel, the widow of Nabal.
27:4	When Saul was told that David had fled to Gath, he no longer searched for him.
27:5	Then David said to Achish, “If I have found favour in your eyes, let a place be assigned to me in one of the country towns, that I may live there. Why should your servant live in the royal city with you?”
27:6	So on that day Achish gave him Ziklag, and it has belonged to the kings of Judah ever since.
27:7	David lived in Philistine territory for a year and four months.
27:8	Now David and his men went up and raided the Geshurites, the Girzites and the Amalekites. (From ancient times these peoples had lived in the land extending to Shur and Egypt.)
27:9	Whenever David attacked an area, he did not leave a man or woman alive, but took sheep and cattle, donkeys and camels, and clothes. Then he returned to Achish.
27:10	When Achish asked, “Where did you go raiding today?” David would say, “Against the Negev of Judah” or “Against the Negev of Jerahmeel” or “Against the Negev of the Kenites.”
27:11	He did not leave a man or woman alive to be brought to Gath, for he thought, “They might inform on us and say, `This is what David did.’“ And such was his practice as long as he lived in Philistine territory.
27:12	Achish trusted David and said to himself, “He has become so odious to his people, the Israelites, that he will be my servant for ever.”
28:1	In those days the Philistines gathered their forces to fight against Israel. Achish said to David, “You must understand that you and your men will accompany me in the army.”
28:2	David said, “Then you will see for yourself what your servant can do.” Achish replied, “Very well, I will make you my bodyguard for life.”
28:3	Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had mourned for him and buried him in his own town of Ramah. Saul had expelled the mediums and spiritists from the land.
28:4	The Philistines assembled and came and set up camp at Shunem, while Saul gathered all the Israelites and set up camp at Gilboa.
28:5	When Saul saw the Philistine army, he was afraid; terror filled his heart.
28:6	He enquired of the LORD, but the LORD did not answer him by dreams or Urim or prophets.
28:7	Saul then said to his attendants, “Find me a woman who is a medium, so that I may go and enquire of her.” “There is one in Endor,” they said.
28:8	So Saul disguised himself, putting on other clothes, and at night he and two men went to the woman. “Consult a spirit for me,” he said, “and bring up for me the one I name.”
28:9	But the woman said to him, “Surely you know what Saul has done. He has cut off the mediums and spiritists from the land. Why have you set a trap for my life to bring about my death?”
28:10	Saul swore to her by the LORD, “As surely as the LORD lives, you will not be punished for this.”
28:11	Then the woman asked, “Whom shall I bring up for you?” “Bring up Samuel,” he said.
28:12	When the woman saw Samuel, she cried out at the top of her voice and said to Saul, “Why have you deceived me? You are Saul!”
28:13	The king said to her, “Don’t be afraid. What do you see?” The woman said, “I see a spirit [Or see spirits; or see gods] coming up out of the ground.”
28:14	“What does he look like?” he asked. “An old man wearing a robe is coming up,” she said. Then Saul knew it was Samuel, and he bowed down and prostrated himself with his face to the ground.
28:15	Samuel said to Saul, “Why have you disturbed me by bringing me up?” “I am in great distress,” Saul said. “The Philistines are fighting against me, and God has turned away from me. He no longer answers me, either by prophets or by dreams. So I have called on you to tell me what to do.”
28:16	Samuel said, “Why do you consult me, now that the LORD has turned away from you and become your enemy?
28:17	The LORD has done what he predicted through me. The LORD has torn the kingdom out of your hands and given it to one of your neighbours — to David.
28:18	Because you did not obey the LORD or carry out his fierce wrath against the Amalekites, the LORD has done this to you today.
28:19	The LORD will hand over both Israel and you to the Philistines, and tomorrow you and your sons will be with me. The LORD will also hand over the army of Israel to the Philistines.”
28:20	Immediately Saul fell full length on the ground, filled with fear because of Samuel’s words. His strength was gone, for he had eaten nothing all that day and night.
28:21	When the woman came to Saul and saw that he was greatly shaken, she said, “Look, your maidservant has obeyed you. I took my life in my hands and did what you told me to do.
28:22	Now please listen to your servant and let me give you some food so that you may eat and have the strength to go on your way.”
28:23	He refused and said, “I will not eat.” But his men joined the woman in urging him, and he listened to them. He got up from the ground and sat on the couch.
28:24	The woman had a fattened calf at the house, which she slaughtered at once. She took some flour, kneaded it and baked bread without yeast.
28:25	Then she set it before Saul and his men, and they ate. That same night they got up and left.
29:1	The Philistines gathered all their forces at Aphek, and Israel camped by the spring in Jezreel.
29:2	As the Philistine rulers marched with their units of hundreds and thousands, David and his men were marching at the rear with Achish.
29:3	The commanders of the Philistines asked, “What about these Hebrews?” Achish replied, “Is this not David, who was an officer of Saul king of Israel? He has already been with me for over a year, and from the day he left Saul until now, I have found no fault in him.”
29:4	But the Philistine commanders were angry with him and said, “Send the man back, that he may return to the place you assigned him. He must not go with us into battle, or he will turn against us during the fighting. How better could he regain his master’s favour than by taking the heads of our own men?
29:5	Isn’t this the David they sang about in their dances: “`Saul has slain his thousands, and David his tens of thousands’?”
29:6	So Achish called David and said to him, “As surely as the LORD lives, you have been reliable, and I would be pleased to have you serve with me in the army. From the day you came to me until now, I have found no fault in you, but the rulers don’t approve of you.
29:7	Turn back and go in peace; do nothing to displease the Philistine rulers.”
29:8	“But what have I done?” asked David. “What have you found against your servant from the day I came to you until now? Why can’t I go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?”
29:9	Achish answered, “I know that you have been as pleasing in my eyes as an angel of God; nevertheless, the Philistine commanders have said, `He must not go up with us into battle.’
29:10	Now get up early, along with your master’s servants who have come with you, and leave in the morning as soon as it is light.”
29:11	So David and his men got up early in the morning to go back to the land of the Philistines, and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
30:1	David and his men reached Ziklag on the third day. Now the Amalekites had raided the Negev and Ziklag. They had attacked Ziklag and burned it,
30:2	and had taken captive the women and all who were in it, both young and old. They killed none of them, but carried them off as they went on their way.
30:3	When David and his men came to Ziklag, they found it destroyed by fire and their wives and sons and daughters taken captive.
30:4	So David and his men wept aloud until they had no strength left to weep.
30:5	David’s two wives had been captured — Ahinoam of Jezreel and Abigail, the widow of Nabal of Carmel.
30:6	David was greatly distressed because the men were talking of stoning him; each one was bitter in spirit because of his sons and daughters. But David found strength in the LORD his God.
30:7	Then David said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, “Bring me the ephod.” Abiathar brought it to him,
30:8	and David enquired of the LORD, “Shall I pursue this raiding party? Will I overtake them?” “Pursue them,” he answered. “You will certainly overtake them and succeed in the rescue.”
30:9	David and the six hundred men with him came to the Besor Ravine, where some stayed behind,
30:10	for two hundred men were too exhausted to cross the ravine. But David and four hundred men continued the pursuit.
30:11	They found an Egyptian in a field and brought him to David. They gave him water to drink and food to eat —
30:12	part of a cake of pressed figs and two cakes of raisins. He ate and was revived, for he had not eaten any food or drunk any water for three days and three nights.
30:13	David asked him, “To whom do you belong, and where do you come from?” He said, “I am an Egyptian, the slave of an Amalekite. My master abandoned me when I became ill three days ago.
30:14	We raided the Negev of the Kerethites and the territory belonging to Judah and the Negev of Caleb. And we burned Ziklag.”
30:15	David asked him, “Can you lead me down to this raiding party?” He answered, “Swear to me before God that you will not kill me or hand me over to my master, and I will take you down to them.”
30:16	He led David down, and there they were, scattered over the countryside, eating, drinking and revelling because of the great amount of plunder they had taken from the land of the Philistines and from Judah.
30:17	David fought them from dusk until the evening of the next day, and none of them got away, except four hundred young men who rode off on camels and fled.
30:18	David recovered everything the Amalekites had taken, including his two wives.
30:19	Nothing was missing: young or old, boy or girl, plunder or anything else they had taken. David brought everything back.
30:20	He took all the flocks and herds, and his men drove them ahead of the other livestock, saying, “This is David’s plunder.”
30:21	Then David came to the two hundred men who had been too exhausted to follow him and who were left behind at the Besor Ravine. They came out to meet David and the people with him. As David and his men approached, he greeted them.
30:22	But all the evil men and troublemakers among David’s followers said, “Because they did not go out with us, we will not share with them the plunder we recovered. However, each man may take his wife and children and go.”
30:23	David replied, “No, my brothers, you must not do that with what the LORD has given us. He has protected us and handed over to us the forces that came against us.
30:24	Who will listen to what you say? The share of the man who stayed with the supplies is to be the same as that of him who went down to the battle. All shall share alike.”
30:25	David made this a statute and ordinance for Israel from that day to this.
30:26	When David arrived in Ziklag, he sent some of the plunder to the elders of Judah, who were his friends, saying, “Here is a present for you from the plunder of the LORD’s enemies.”
30:27	He sent it to those who were in Bethel, Ramoth Negev and Jattir;
30:28	to those in Aroer, Siphmoth, Eshtemoa
30:29	and Racal; to those in the towns of the Jerahmeelites and the Kenites;
30:30	to those in Hormah, Bor Ashan, Athach
30:31	and Hebron; and to those in all the other places where David and his men had roamed.
31:1	Now the Philistines fought against Israel; the Israelites fled before them, and many fell slain on Mount Gilboa.
31:2	The Philistines pressed hard after Saul and his sons, and they killed his sons Jonathan, Abinadab and Malki-Shua.
31:3	The fighting grew fierce around Saul, and when the archers overtook him, they wounded him critically.
31:4	Saul said to his armour-bearer, “Draw your sword and run me through, or these uncircumcised fellows will come and run me through and abuse me.” But the armour-bearer was terrified and would not do it; so Saul took his own sword and fell on it.
31:5	When the armour-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he too fell on his sword and died with him.
31:6	So Saul and his three sons and his armour-bearer and all his men died together that same day.
31:7	When the Israelites along the valley and those across the Jordan saw that the Israelite army had fled and that Saul and his sons had died, they abandoned their towns and fled. And the Philistines came and occupied them.
31:8	The next day, when the Philistines came to strip the dead, they found Saul and his three sons fallen on Mount Gilboa.
31:9	They cut off his head and stripped off his armour, and they sent messengers throughout the land of the Philistines to proclaim the news in the temple of their idols and among their people.
31:10	They put his armour in the temple of the Ashtoreths and fastened his body to the wall of Beth Shan.
31:11	When the people of Jabesh Gilead heard of what the Philistines had done to Saul,
31:12	all their valiant men journeyed through the night to Beth Shan. They took down the bodies of Saul and his sons from the wall of Beth Shan and went to Jabesh, where they burned them.
31:13	Then they took their bones and buried them under a tamarisk tree at Jabesh, and they fasted seven days.

# NIV84 2 Samuel — converted from PDF (AGES Digital Library transcription of the New International Version, 1984 edition); source PDF pages 706-773
1:1	After the death of Saul, David returned from defeating the Amalekites and stayed in Ziklag two days.
1:2	On the third day a man arrived from Saul’s camp, with his clothes torn and with dust on his head. When he came to David, he fell to the ground to pay him honour.
1:3	“Where have you come from?” David asked him. He answered, “I have escaped from the Israelite camp.”
1:4	“What happened?” David asked. “Tell me.” He said, “The men fled from the battle. Many of them fell and died. And Saul and his son Jonathan are dead.”
1:5	Then David said to the young man who brought him the report, “How do you know that Saul and his son Jonathan are dead?”
1:6	“I happened to be on Mount Gilboa,” the young man said, “and there was Saul, leaning on his spear, with the chariots and riders almost upon him.
1:7	When he turned round and saw me, he called out to me, and I said, `What can I do?’
1:8	“He asked me, `Who are you?’ “`An Amalekite,’ I answered.
1:9	“Then he said to me, `Stand over me and kill me! I am in the throes of death, but I’m still alive.’
1:10	“So I stood over him and killed him, because I knew that after he had fallen he could not survive. And I took the crown that was on his head and the band on his arm and have brought them here to my lord.”
1:11	Then David and all the men with him took hold of their clothes and tore them.
1:12	They mourned and wept and fasted till evening for Saul and his son Jonathan, and for the army of the LORD and the house of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword.
1:13	David said to the young man who brought him the report, “Where are you from?” “I am the son of an alien, an Amalekite,” he answered.
1:14	David asked him, “Why were you not afraid to lift your hand to destroy the LORD’s anointed?”
1:15	Then David called one of his men and said, “Go, strike him down!” So he struck him down, and he died.
1:16	For David had said to him, “Your blood be on your own head. Your own mouth testified against you when you said, `I killed the LORD’s anointed.’“
1:17	David took up this lament concerning Saul and his son Jonathan,
1:18	and ordered that the men of Judah be taught this lament of the bow (it is written in the Book of Jashar):
1:19	“Your glory, O Israel, lies slain on your heights. How the mighty have fallen!
1:20	“Tell it not in Gath, proclaim it not in the streets of Ashkelon, lest the daughters of the Philistines be glad, lest the daughters of the uncircumcised rejoice.
1:21	“O mountains of Gilboa, may you have neither dew nor rain, nor fields that yield offerings of grain. For there the shield of the mighty was defiled, the shield of Saul — no longer rubbed with oil.
1:22	From the blood of the slain, from the flesh of the mighty, the bow of Jonathan did not turn back, the sword of Saul did not return unsatisfied.
1:23	“Saul and Jonathan — in life they were loved and gracious, and in death they were not parted. They were swifter than eagles, they were stronger than lions.
1:24	“O daughters of Israel, weep for Saul, who clothed you in scarlet and finery, who adorned your garments with ornaments of gold.
1:25	“How the mighty have fallen in battle! Jonathan lies slain on your heights.
1:26	I grieve for you, Jonathan my brother; you were very dear to me. Your love for me was wonderful, more wonderful than that of women.
1:27	“How the mighty have fallen! The weapons of war have perished!”
2:1	In the course of time, David enquired of the LORD. “Shall I go up to one of the towns of Judah?” he asked. The LORD said, “Go up.” David asked, “Where shall I go?” “To Hebron,” the LORD answered.
2:2	So David went up there with his two wives, Ahinoam of Jezreel and Abigail, the widow of Nabal of Carmel.
2:3	David also took the men who were with him, each with his family, and they settled in Hebron and its towns.
2:4	Then the men of Judah came to Hebron and there they anointed David king over the house of Judah. When David was told that it was the men of Jabesh Gilead who had buried Saul,
2:5	he sent messengers to the men of Jabesh Gilead to say to them, “The LORD bless you for showing this kindness to Saul your master by burying him.
2:6	May the LORD now show you kindness and faithfulness, and I too will show you the same favour because you have done this.
2:7	Now then, be strong and brave, for Saul your master is dead, and the house of Judah has anointed me king over them.”
2:8	Meanwhile, Abner son of Ner, the commander of Saul’s army, had taken Ish-Bosheth son of Saul and brought him over to Mahanaim.
2:9	He made him king over Gilead, Ashuri [Or Asher] and Jezreel, and also over Ephraim, Benjamin and all Israel.
2:10	Ish-Bosheth son of Saul was forty years old when he became king over Israel, and he reigned two years. The house of Judah, however, followed David.
2:11	The length of time David was king in Hebron over the house of Judah was seven years and six months.
2:12	Abner son of Ner, together with the men of Ish-Bosheth son of Saul, left Mahanaim and went to Gibeon.
2:13	Joab son of Zeruiah and David’s men went out and met them at the pool of Gibeon. One group sat down on one side of the pool and one group on the other side.
2:14	Then Abner said to Joab, “Let’s have some of the young men get up and fight hand to hand in front of us.” “All right, let them do it,” Joab said.
2:15	So they stood up and were counted off — twelve men for Benjamin and Ish-Bosheth son of Saul, and twelve for David.
2:16	Then each man grabbed his opponent by the head and thrust his dagger into his opponent’s side, and they fell down together. So that place in Gibeon was called Helkath Hazzurim. [Helkath Hazzurim means field of daggers or field of hostilities.]
2:17	The battle that day was very fierce, and Abner and the men of Israel were defeated by David’s men.
2:18	The three sons of Zeruiah were there: Joab, Abishai and Asahel. Now Asahel was as fleet-footed as a wild gazelle.
2:19	He chased Abner, turning neither to the right nor to the left as he pursued him.
2:20	Abner looked behind him and asked, “Is that you, Asahel?” “It is,” he answered.
2:21	Then Abner said to him, “Turn aside to the right or to the left; take on one of the young men and strip him of his weapons.” But Asahel would not stop chasing him.
2:22	Again Abner warned Asahel, “Stop chasing me! Why should I strike you down? How could I look your brother Joab in the face?”
2:23	But Asahel refused to give up the pursuit; so Abner thrust the butt of his spear into Asahel’s stomach, and the spear came out through his back. He fell there and died on the spot. And every man stopped when he came to the place where Asahel had fallen and died.
2:24	But Joab and Abishai pursued Abner, and as the sun was setting, they came to the hill of Ammah, near Giah on the way to the wasteland of Gibeon.
2:25	Then the men of Benjamin rallied behind Abner. They formed themselves into a group and took their stand on top of a hill.
2:26	Abner called out to Joab, “Must the sword devour for ever? Don’t you realise that this will end in bitterness? How long before you order your men to stop pursuing their brothers?”
2:27	Joab answered, “As surely as God lives, if you had not spoken, the men would have continued the pursuit of their brothers until morning.” [Or spoken this morning, the men would not have taken up the pursuit of their brothers; or spoken, the men would have given up the pursuit of their brothers by morning]
2:28	So Joab blew the trumpet, and all the men came to a halt; they no longer pursued Israel, nor did they fight any more.
2:29	All that night Abner and his men marched through the Arabah. They crossed the Jordan, continued through the whole Bithron [Or morning; or ravine; the meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain.] and came to Mahanaim.
2:30	Then Joab returned from pursuing Abner and assembled all his men. Besides Asahel, nineteen of David’s men were found missing.
2:31	But David’s men had killed 360 Benjamites who were with Abner.
2:32	They took Asahel and buried him in his father’s tomb at Bethlehem. Then Joab and his men marched all night and arrived at Hebron by daybreak.
3:1	The war between the house of Saul and the house of David lasted a long time. David grew stronger and stronger, while the house of Saul grew weaker and weaker.
3:2	Sons were born to David in Hebron: His firstborn was Amnon the son of Ahinoam of Jezreel;
3:3	his second, Kileab the son of Abigail the widow of Nabal of Carmel; the third, Absalom the son of Maacah daughter of Talmai king of Geshur;
3:4	the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith; the fifth, Shephatiah the son of Abital;
3:5	and the sixth, Ithream the son of David’s wife Eglah. These were born to David in Hebron.
3:6	During the war between the house of Saul and the house of David, Abner had been strengthening his own position in the house of Saul.
3:7	Now Saul had had a concubine named Rizpah daughter of Aiah. And Ish-Bosheth said to Abner, “Why did you sleep with my father’s concubine?”
3:8	Abner was very angry because of what Ish-Bosheth said and he answered, “Am I a dog’s head — on Judah’s side? This very day I am loyal to the house of your father Saul and to his family and friends. I haven’t handed you over to David. Yet now you accuse me of an offence involving this woman!
3:9	May God deal with Abner, be it ever so severely, if I do not do for David what the LORD promised him on oath
3:10	and transfer the kingdom from the house of Saul and establish David’s throne over Israel and Judah from Dan to Beersheba.”
3:11	Ish-Bosheth did not dare to say another word to Abner, because he was afraid of him.
3:12	Then Abner sent messengers on his behalf to say to David, “Whose land is it? Make an agreement with me, and I will help you bring all Israel over to you.”
3:13	“Good,” said David. “I will make an agreement with you. But I demand one thing of you: Do not come into my presence unless you bring Michal daughter of Saul when you come to see me.”
3:14	Then David sent messengers to Ish-Bosheth son of Saul, demanding, “Give me my wife Michal, whom I betrothed to myself for the price of a hundred Philistine foreskins.”
3:15	So Ish-Bosheth gave orders and had her taken away from her husband Paltiel son of Laish.
3:16	Her husband, however, went with her, weeping behind her all the way to Bahurim. Then Abner said to him, “Go back home!” So he went back.
3:17	Abner conferred with the elders of Israel and said, “For some time you have wanted to make David your king.
3:18	Now do it! For the LORD promised David, `By my servant David I will rescue my people Israel from the hand of the Philistines and from the hand of all their enemies.’“
3:19	Abner also spoke to the Benjamites in person. Then he went to Hebron to tell David everything that Israel and the whole house of Benjamin wanted to do.
3:20	When Abner, who had twenty men with him, came to David at Hebron, David prepared a feast for him and his men.
3:21	Then Abner said to David, “Let me go at once and assemble all Israel for my lord the king, so that they may make a compact with you, and that you may rule over all that your heart desires.” So David sent Abner away, and he went in peace.
3:22	Just then David’s men and Joab returned from a raid and brought with them a great deal of plunder. But Abner was no longer with David in Hebron, because David had sent him away, and he had gone in peace.
3:23	When Joab and all the soldiers with him arrived, he was told that Abner son of Ner had come to the king and that the king had sent him away and that he had gone in peace.
3:24	So Joab went to the king and said, “What have you done? Look, Abner came to you. Why did you let him go? Now he is gone!
3:25	You know Abner son of Ner; he came to deceive you and observe your movements and find out everything you are doing.”
3:26	Joab then left David and sent messengers after Abner, and they brought him back from the well of Sirah. But David did not know it.
3:27	Now when Abner returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside into the gateway, as though to speak with him privately. And there, to avenge the blood of his brother Asahel, Joab stabbed him in the stomach, and he died.
3:28	Later, when David heard about this, he said, “I and my kingdom are for ever innocent before the LORD concerning the blood of Abner son of Ner.
3:29	May his blood fall upon the head of Joab and upon all his father’s house! May Joab’s house never be without someone who has a running sore or leprosy [The Hebrew word was used for various diseases affecting the skin — not necessarily leprosy.] or who leans on a crutch or who falls by the sword or who lacks food.”
3:30	(Joab and his brother Abishai murdered Abner because he had killed their brother Asahel in the battle of Gibeon.)
3:31	Then David said to Joab and all the people with him, “Tear your clothes and put on sackcloth and walk in mourning in front of Abner.” King David himself walked behind the bier.
3:32	They buried Abner in Hebron, and the king wept aloud at Abner’s tomb. All the people wept also.
3:33	The king sang this lament for Abner: “Should Abner have died as the lawless die?
3:34	Your hands were not bound, your feet were not fettered. You fell as one falls before wicked men.” And all the people wept over him again.
3:35	Then they all came and urged David to eat something while it was still day; but David took an oath, saying, “May God deal with me, be it ever so severely, if I taste bread or anything else before the sun sets!”
3:36	All the people took note and were pleased; indeed, everything the king did pleased them.
3:37	So on that day all the people and all Israel knew that the king had no part in the murder of Abner son of Ner.
3:38	Then the king said to his men, “Do you not realise that a prince and a great man has fallen in Israel this day?
3:39	And today, though I am the anointed king, I am weak, and these sons of Zeruiah are too strong for me. May the LORD repay the evildoer according to his evil deeds!”
4:1	When Ish-Bosheth son of Saul heard that Abner had died in Hebron, he lost courage, and all Israel became alarmed.
4:2	Now Saul’s son had two men who were leaders of raiding bands. One was named Baanah and the other Recab; they were sons of Rimmon the Beerothite from the tribe of Benjamin — Beeroth is considered part of Benjamin,
4:3	because the people of Beeroth fled to Gittaim and have lived there as aliens to this day.
4:4	(Jonathan son of Saul had a son who was lame in both feet. He was five years old when the news about Saul and Jonathan came from Jezreel. His nurse picked him up and fled, but as she hurried to leave, he fell and became crippled. His name was Mephibosheth.)
4:5	Now Recab and Baanah, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, set out for the house of Ish-Bosheth, and they arrived there in the heat of the day while he was taking his noonday rest.
4:6	They went into the inner part of the house as if to get some wheat, and they stabbed him in the stomach. Then Recab and his brother Baanah slipped away.
4:7	They had gone into the house while he was lying on the bed in his bedroom. After they stabbed and killed him, they cut off his head. Taking it with them, they travelled all night by way of the Arabah.
4:8	They brought the head of Ish-Bosheth to David at Hebron and said to the king, “Here is the head of Ish-Bosheth son of Saul, your enemy, who tried to take your life. This day the LORD has avenged my lord the king against Saul and his offspring.”
4:9	David answered Recab and his brother Baanah, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, “As surely as the LORD lives, who has delivered me out of all trouble,
4:10	when a man told me, `Saul is dead,’ and thought he was bringing good news, I seized him and put him to death in Ziklag. That was the reward I gave him for his news!
4:11	How much more — when wicked men have killed an innocent man in his own house and on his own bed — should I not now demand his blood from your hand and rid the earth of you!”
4:12	So David gave an order to his men, and they killed them. They cut off their hands and feet and hung the bodies by the pool in Hebron. But they took the head of Ish-Bosheth and buried it in Abner’s tomb at Hebron.
5:1	All the tribes of Israel came to David at Hebron and said, “We are your own flesh and blood.
5:2	In the past, while Saul was king over us, you were the one who led Israel on their military campaigns. And the LORD said to you, `You shall shepherd my people Israel, and you shall become their ruler.’“
5:3	When all the elders of Israel had come to King David at Hebron, the king made a compact with them at Hebron before the LORD, and they anointed David king over Israel.
5:4	David was thirty years old when he became king, and he reigned for forty years.
5:5	In Hebron he reigned over Judah for seven years and six months, and in Jerusalem he reigned over all Israel and Judah for thirty-three years.
5:6	The king and his men marched to Jerusalem to attack the Jebusites, who lived there. The Jebusites said to David, “You will not get in here; even the blind and the lame can ward you off.” They thought, “David cannot get in here.”
5:7	Nevertheless, David captured the fortress of Zion, the City of David.
5:8	On that day, David said, “Anyone who conquers the Jebusites will have to use the water shaft [Or use scaling hooks] to reach those `lame and blind’ who are David’s enemies.” [Or are hated by David] That is why they say, “The `blind and lame’ will not enter the palace.”
5:9	David then took up residence in the fortress and called it the City of David. He built up the area around it, from the supporting terraces [Or the Millo] inward.
5:10	And he became more and more powerful, because the LORD God Almighty was with him.
5:11	Now Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, along with cedar logs and carpenters and stonemasons, and they built a palace for David.
5:12	And David knew that the LORD had established him as king over Israel and had exalted his kingdom for the sake of his people Israel.
5:13	After he left Hebron, David took more concubines and wives in Jerusalem, and more sons and daughters were born to him.
5:14	These are the names of the children born to him there: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon,
5:15	Ibhar, Elishua, Nepheg, Japhia,
5:16	Elishama, Eliada and Eliphelet.
5:17	When the Philistines heard that David had been anointed king over Israel, they went up in full force to search for him, but David heard about it and went down to the stronghold.
5:18	Now the Philistines had come and spread out in the Valley of Rephaim;
5:19	so David enquired of the LORD, “Shall I go and attack the Philistines? Will you hand them over to me?” The LORD answered him, “Go, for I will surely hand the Philistines over to you.”
5:20	So David went to Baal Perazim, and there he defeated them. He said, “As waters break out, the LORD has broken out against my enemies before me.” So that place was called Baal Perazim. [Baal Perazim means the lord who breaks out.]
5:21	The Philistines abandoned their idols there, and David and his men carried them off.
5:22	Once more the Philistines came up and spread out in the Valley of Rephaim;
5:23	so David enquired of the LORD, and he answered, “Do not go straight up, but circle round behind them and attack them in front of the balsam trees.
5:24	As soon as you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the balsam trees, move quickly, because that will mean the LORD has gone out in front of you to strike the Philistine army.”
5:25	So David did as the LORD commanded him, and he struck down the Philistines all the way from Gibeon [Septuagint (see also 1 Chron. 14:16); Hebrew Geba] to Gezer.
6:1	David again brought together out of Israel chosen men, thirty thousand in all.
6:2	He and all his men set out from Baalah of Judah [That is, Kiriath Jearim; Hebrew Baale Judah, a variant of Baalah of Judah] to bring up from there the ark of God, which is called by the Name, [Hebrew; Septuagint and Vulgate do not have the Name.] the name of the LORD Almighty, who is enthroned between the cherubim that are on the ark.
6:3	They set the ark of God on a new cart and brought it from the house of Abinadab, which was on the hill. Uzzah and Ahio, sons of Abinadab, were guiding the new cart
6:4	with the ark of God on it, [Dead Sea Scrolls and some Septuagint manuscripts; Masoretic Text cart 4 and they brought it with the ark of God from the house of Abinadab, which was on the hill] and Ahio was walking in front of it.
6:5	David and the whole house of Israel were celebrating with all their might before the LORD, with songs [See Dead Sea Scrolls, Septuagint and 1 Chron. 13:8; Masoretic Text celebrating before the LORD with all kinds of instruments made of pine.] and with harps, lyres, tambourines, sistrums and cymbals.
6:6	When they came to the threshing-floor of Nacon, Uzzah reached out and took hold of the ark of God, because the oxen stumbled.
6:7	The LORD’s anger burned against Uzzah because of his irreverent act; therefore God struck him down and he died there beside the ark of God.
6:8	Then David was angry because the LORD’s wrath had broken out against Uzzah, and to this day that place is called Perez Uzzah. [Perez Uzzah means the outbreak against Uzzah.]
6:9	David was afraid of the LORD that day and said, “How can the ark of the LORD ever come to me?”
6:10	He was not willing to take the ark of the LORD to be with him in the City of David. Instead, he took it aside to the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite.
6:11	The ark of the LORD remained in the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite for three months, and the LORD blessed him and his entire household.
6:12	Now King David was told, “The LORD has blessed the household of Obed-Edom and everything he has, because of the ark of God.” So David went down and brought up the ark of God from the house of Obed-Edom to the City of David with rejoicing.
6:13	When those who were carrying the ark of the LORD had taken six steps, he sacrificed a bull and a fattened calf.
6:14	David, wearing a linen ephod, danced before the LORD with all his might,
6:15	while he and the entire house of Israel brought up the ark of the LORD with shouts and the sound of trumpets.
6:16	As the ark of the LORD was entering the City of David, Michal daughter of Saul watched from a window. And when she saw King David leaping and dancing before the LORD, she despised him in her heart.
6:17	They brought the ark of the LORD and set it in its place inside the tent that David had pitched for it, and David sacrificed burnt offerings and fellowship offerings [Traditionally peace offerings; also in verse 18] before the LORD.
6:18	After he had finished sacrificing the burnt offerings and fellowship offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD Almighty.
6:19	Then he gave a loaf of bread, a cake of dates and a cake of raisins to each person in the whole crowd of Israelites, both men and women. And all the people went to their homes.
6:20	When David returned home to bless his household, Michal daughter of Saul came out to meet him and said, “How the king of Israel has distinguished himself today, disrobing in the sight of the slave girls of his servants as any vulgar fellow would.”
6:21	David said to Michal, “It was before the LORD, who chose me rather than your father or anyone from his house when he appointed me ruler over the LORD’s people Israel — I will celebrate before the LORD.
6:22	I will become even more undignified than this, and I will be humiliated in my own eyes. But by these slave girls you spoke of, I will be held in honour.”
6:23	And Michal daughter of Saul had no children to the day of her death.
7:1	After the king was settled in his palace and the LORD had given him rest from all his enemies around him,
7:2	he said to Nathan the prophet, “Here I am, living in a palace of cedar, while the ark of God remains in a tent.”
7:3	Nathan replied to the king, “Whatever you have in mind, go ahead and do it, for the LORD is with you.”
7:4	That night the word of the LORD came to Nathan, saying:
7:5	“Go and tell my servant David, `This is what the LORD says: Are you the one to build me a house to dwell in?
7:6	I have not dwelt in a house from the day I brought the Israelites up out of Egypt to this day. I have been moving from place to place with a tent as my dwelling.
7:7	Wherever I have moved with all the Israelites, did I ever say to any of their rulers whom I commanded to shepherd my people Israel, “Why have you not built me a house of cedar?”’
7:8	“Now then, tell my servant David, `This is what the LORD Almighty says: I took you from the pasture and from following the flock to be ruler over my people Israel.
7:9	I have been with you wherever you have gone, and I have cut off all your enemies from before you. Now I will make your name great, like the names of the greatest men of the earth.
7:10	And I will provide a place for my people Israel and will plant them so that they can have a home of their own and no longer be disturbed. Wicked people shall not oppress them any more, as they did at the beginning
7:11	and have done ever since the time I appointed leaders [Traditionally judges] over my people Israel. I will also give you rest from all your enemies. “`The LORD declares to you that the LORD himself will establish a house for you:
7:12	When your days are over and you rest with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring to succeed you, who will come from your own body, and I will establish his kingdom.
7:13	He is the one who will build a house for my Name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom for ever.
7:14	I will be his father, and he shall be my son. When he does wrong, I will punish him with the rod of men, with floggings inflicted by men.
7:15	But my love will never be taken away from him, as I took it away from Saul, whom I removed from before you.
7:16	Your house and your kingdom shall endure for ever before me; [Some Hebrew manuscripts and Septuagint; most Hebrew manuscripts you] your throne shall be established for ever.’“
7:17	Nathan reported to David all the words of this entire revelation.
7:18	Then King David went in and sat before the LORD, and he said: “Who am I, O Sovereign LORD, and what is my family, that you have brought me this far?
7:19	And as if this were not enough in your sight, O Sovereign LORD, you have also spoken about the future of the house of your servant. Is this your usual way of dealing with man, O Sovereign LORD?
7:20	“What more can David say to you? For you know your servant, O Sovereign LORD.
7:21	For the sake of your word and according to your will, you have done this great thing and made it known to your servant.
7:22	“How great you are, O Sovereign LORD! There is no-one like you, and there is no God but you, as we have heard with our own ears.
7:23	And who is like your people Israel — the one nation on earth that God went out to redeem as a people for himself, and to make a name for himself, and to perform great and awesome wonders by driving out nations and their gods from before your people, whom you redeemed from Egypt? [See Septuagint and 1 Chron. 17:21; Hebrew wonders for your land and before your people, whom you redeemed from Egypt, from the nations and their gods.]
7:24	You have established your people Israel as your very own for ever, and you, O LORD, have become their God.
7:25	“And now, LORD God, keep for ever the promise you have made concerning your servant and his house. Do as you promised,
7:26	so that your name will be great for ever. Then men will say, `The LORD Almighty is God over Israel!’ And the house of your servant David will be established before you.
7:27	“O LORD Almighty, God of Israel, you have revealed this to your servant, saying, `I will build a house for you.’ So your servant has found courage to offer you this prayer.
7:28	Sovereign LORD, you are God! Your words are trustworthy, and you have promised these good things to your servant.
7:29	Now be pleased to bless the house of your servant, that it may continue for ever in your sight; for you, O Sovereign LORD, have spoken, and with your blessing the house of your servant will be blessed for ever.”
8:1	In the course of time, David defeated the Philistines and subdued them, and he took Metheg Ammah from the control of the Philistines.
8:2	David also defeated the Moabites. He made them lie down on the ground and measured them off with a length of cord. Every two lengths of them were put to death, and the third length was allowed to live. So the Moabites became subject to David and brought tribute.
8:3	Moreover, David fought Hadadezer son of Rehob, king of Zobah, when he went to restore his control along the Euphrates River.
8:4	David captured a thousand of his chariots, seven thousand charioteers [Septuagint (see also Dead Sea Scrolls and 1 Chron. 18:4); Masoretic Text captured seventeen hundred of his charioteers] and twenty thousand foot soldiers. He hamstrung all but a hundred of the chariot horses.
8:5	When the Arameans of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David struck down twenty-two thousand of them.
8:6	He put garrisons in the Aramean kingdom of Damascus, and the Arameans became subject to him and brought tribute. The LORD gave David victory wherever he went.
8:7	David took the gold shields that belonged to the officers of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem.
8:8	From Tebah [See some Septuagint manuscripts (see also 1 Chron. 18:8); Hebrew Betah.] and Berothai, towns that belonged to Hadadezer, King David took a great quantity of bronze.
8:9	When Tou [Hebrew Toi, a variant of Tou; also in verse 10] king of Hamath heard that David had defeated the entire army of Hadadezer,
8:10	he sent his son Joram [A variant of Hadoram] to King David to greet him and congratulate him on his victory in battle over Hadadezer, who had been at war with Tou. Joram brought with him articles of silver and gold and bronze.
8:11	King David dedicated these articles to the LORD, as he had done with the silver and gold from all the nations he had subdued:
8:12	Edom [Some Hebrew manuscripts, Septuagint and Syriac (see also 1 Chron. 18:11); most Hebrew manuscripts Aram] and Moab, the Ammonites and the Philistines, and Amalek. He also dedicated the plunder taken from Hadadezer son of Rehob, king of Zobah.
8:13	And David became famous after he returned from striking down eighteen thousand Edomites [A few Hebrew manuscripts, Septuagint and Syriac (see also 1 Chron. 18:12); most Hebrew manuscripts Aram (that is, Arameans)] in the Valley of Salt.
8:14	He put garrisons throughout Edom, and all the Edomites became subject to David. The LORD gave David victory wherever he went.
8:15	David reigned over all Israel, doing what was just and right for all his people.
8:16	Joab son of Zeruiah was over the army; Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was recorder;
8:17	Zadok son of Ahitub and Ahimelech son of Abiathar were priests; Seraiah was secretary;
8:18	Benaiah son of Jehoiada was over the Kerethites and Pelethites; and David’s sons were royal advisers. [Or were priests]
9:1	David asked, “Is there anyone still left of the house of Saul to whom I can show kindness for Jonathan’s sake?”
9:2	Now there was a servant of Saul’s household named Ziba. They called him to appear before David, and the king said to him, “Are you Ziba?” “Your servant,” he replied.
9:3	The king asked, “Is there no-one still left of the house of Saul to whom I can show God’s kindness?” Ziba answered the king, “There is still a son of Jonathan; he is crippled in both feet.”
9:4	“Where is he?” the king asked. Ziba answered, “He is at the house of Makir son of Ammiel in Lo Debar.”
9:5	So King David had him brought from Lo Debar, from the house of Makir son of Ammiel.
9:6	When Mephibosheth son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, came to David, he bowed down to pay him honour. David said, “Mephibosheth!” “Your servant,” he replied.
9:7	“Don’t be afraid,” David said to him, “for I will surely show you kindness for the sake of your father Jonathan. I will restore to you all the land that belonged to your grandfather Saul, and you will always eat at my table.”
9:8	Mephibosheth bowed down and said, “What is your servant, that you should notice a dead dog like me?”
9:9	Then the king summoned Ziba, Saul’s servant, and said to him, “I have given your master’s grandson everything that belonged to Saul and his family.
9:10	You and your sons and your servants are to farm the land for him and bring in the crops, so that your master’s grandson may be provided for. And Mephibosheth, grandson of your master, will always eat at my table.” (Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants.)
9:11	Then Ziba said to the king, “Your servant will do whatever my lord the king commands his servant to do.” So Mephibosheth ate at David’s [Septuagint; Hebrew my] table like one of the king’s sons.
9:12	Mephibosheth had a young son named Mica, and all the members of Ziba’s household were servants of Mephibosheth.
9:13	And Mephibosheth lived in Jerusalem, because he always ate at the king’s table, and he was crippled in both feet.
10:1	In the course of time, the king of the Ammonites died, and his son Hanun succeeded him as king.
10:2	David thought, “I will show kindness to Hanun son of Nahash, just as his father showed kindness to me.” So David sent a delegation to express his sympathy to Hanun concerning his father. When David’s men came to the land of the Ammonites,
10:3	the Ammonite nobles said to Hanun their lord, “Do you think David is honouring your father by sending men to you to express sympathy? Hasn’t David sent them to you to explore the city and spy it out and overthrow it?”
10:4	So Hanun seized David’s men, shaved off half of each man’s beard, cut off their garments in the middle at the buttocks, and sent them away.
10:5	When David was told about this, he sent messengers to meet the men, for they were greatly humiliated. The king said, “Stay at Jericho till your beards have grown, and then come back.”
10:6	When the Ammonites realised that they had become an offence to David’s nostrils, they hired twenty thousand Aramean foot soldiers from Beth Rehob and Zobah, as well as the king of Maacah with a thousand men, and also twelve thousand men from Tob.
10:7	On hearing this, David sent Joab out with the entire army of fighting men.
10:8	The Ammonites came out and drew up in battle formation at the entrance to their city gate, while the Arameans of Zobah and Rehob and the men of Tob and Maacah were by themselves in the open country.
10:9	Joab saw that there were battle lines in front of him and behind him; so he selected some of the best troops in Israel and deployed them against the Arameans.
10:10	He put the rest of the men under the command of Abishai his brother and deployed them against the Ammonites.
10:11	Joab said, “If the Arameans are too strong for me, then you are to come to my rescue; but if the Ammonites are too strong for you, then I will come to rescue you.
10:12	Be strong and let us fight bravely for our people and the cities of our God. The LORD will do what is good in his sight.”
10:13	Then Joab and the troops with him advanced to fight the Arameans, and they fled before him.
10:14	When the Ammonites saw that the Arameans were fleeing, they fled before Abishai and went inside the city. So Joab returned from fighting the Ammonites and came to Jerusalem.
10:15	After the Arameans saw that they had been routed by Israel, they regrouped.
10:16	Hadadezer had Arameans brought from beyond the River; [That is, the Euphrates] they went to Helam, with Shobach the commander of Hadadezer’s army leading them.
10:17	When David was told of this, he gathered all Israel, crossed the Jordan and went to Helam. The Arameans formed their battle lines to meet David and fought against him.
10:18	But they fled before Israel, and David killed seven hundred of their charioteers and forty thousand of their foot soldiers. [Some Septuagint manuscripts (see also 1 Chron. 19:18); Hebrew horsemen] He also struck down Shobach the commander of their army, and he died there.
10:19	When all the kings who were vassals of Hadadezer saw that they had been defeated by Israel, they made peace with the Israelites and became subject to them. So the Arameans were afraid to help the Ammonites any more.
11:1	In the spring, at the time when kings go off to war, David sent Joab out with the king’s men and the whole Israelite army. They destroyed the Ammonites and besieged Rabbah. But David remained in Jerusalem.
11:2	One evening David got up from his bed and walked around on the roof of the palace. From the roof he saw a woman bathing. The woman was very beautiful,
11:3	and David sent someone to find out about her. The man said, “Isn’t this Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam and the wife of Uriah the Hittite?”
11:4	Then David sent messengers to get her. She came to him, and he slept with her. (She had purified herself from her uncleanness.) Then [Or with her. When she purified herself from her uncleanness,] she went back home.
11:5	The woman conceived and sent word to David, saying, “I am pregnant.”
11:6	So David sent this word to Joab: “Send me Uriah the Hittite.” And Joab sent him to David.
11:7	When Uriah came to him, David asked him how Joab was, how the soldiers were and how the war was going.
11:8	Then David said to Uriah, “Go down to your house and wash your feet.” So Uriah left the palace, and a gift from the king was sent after him.
11:9	But Uriah slept at the entrance to the palace with all his master’s servants and did not go down to his house.
11:10	When David was told, “Uriah did not go home,” he asked him, “Haven’t you just come from a distance? Why didn’t you go home?”
11:11	Uriah said to David, “The ark and Israel and Judah are staying in tents, and my master Joab and my lord’s men are camped in the open fields. How could I go to my house to eat and drink and lie with my wife? As surely as you live, I will not do such a thing!”
11:12	Then David said to him, “Stay here one more day, and tomorrow I will send you back.” So Uriah remained in Jerusalem that day and the next.
11:13	At David’s invitation, he ate and drank with him, and David made him drunk. But in the evening Uriah went out to sleep on his mat among his master’s servants; he did not go home.
11:14	In the morning David wrote a letter to Joab and sent it with Uriah.
11:15	In it he wrote, “Put Uriah in the front line where the fighting is fiercest. Then withdraw from him so that he will be struck down and die.”
11:16	So while Joab had the city under siege, he put Uriah at a place where he knew the strongest defenders were.
11:17	When the men of the city came out and fought against Joab, some of the men in David’s army fell; moreover, Uriah the Hittite died.
11:18	Joab sent David a full account of the battle.
11:19	He instructed the messenger: “When you have finished giving the king this account of the battle,
11:20	the king’s anger may flare up, and he may ask you, `Why did you get so close to the city to fight? Didn’t you know they would shoot arrows from the wall?
11:21	Who killed Abimelech son of Jerub-Besheth? [Also known as Jerub-Baal (that is, Gideon)] Didn’t a woman throw an upper millstone on him from the wall, so that he died in Thebez? Why did you get so close to the wall?’ If he asks you this, then say to him, `Also, your servant Uriah the Hittite is dead.’“
11:22	The messenger set out, and when he arrived he told David everything Joab had sent him to say.
11:23	The messenger said to David, “The men overpowered us and came out against us in the open, but we drove them back to the entrance to the city gate.
11:24	Then the archers shot arrows at your servants from the wall, and some of the king’s men died. Moreover, your servant Uriah the Hittite is dead.”
11:25	David told the messenger, “Say this to Joab: `Don’t let this upset you; the sword devours one as well as another. Press the attack against the city and destroy it.’ Say this to encourage Joab.”
11:26	When Uriah’s wife heard that her husband was dead, she mourned for him.
11:27	After the time of mourning was over, David had her brought to his house, and she became his wife and bore him a son. But the thing David had done displeased the LORD.
12:1	The LORD sent Nathan to David. When he came to him, he said, “There were two men in a certain town, one rich and the other poor.
12:2	The rich man had a very large number of sheep and cattle,
12:3	but the poor man had nothing except one little ewe lamb that he had bought. He raised it, and it grew up with him and his children. It shared his food, drank from his cup and even slept in his arms. It was like a daughter to him.
12:4	“Now a traveller came to the rich man, but the rich man refrained from taking one of his own sheep or cattle to prepare a meal for the traveller who had come to him. Instead, he took the ewe lamb that belonged to the poor man and prepared it for the one who had come to him.”
12:5	David burned with anger against the man and said to Nathan, “As surely as the LORD lives, the man who did this deserves to die!
12:6	He must pay for that lamb four times over, because he did such a thing and had no pity.”
12:7	Then Nathan said to David, “You are the man! This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says: `I anointed you king over Israel, and I delivered you from the hand of Saul.
12:8	I gave your master’s house to you, and your master’s wives into your arms. I gave you the house of Israel and Judah. And if all this had been too little, I would have given you even more.
12:9	Why did you despise the word of the LORD by doing what is evil in his eyes? You struck down Uriah the Hittite with the sword and took his wife to be your own. You killed him with the sword of the Ammonites.
12:10	Now, therefore, the sword shall never depart from your house, because you despised me and took the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your own.’
12:11	“This is what the LORD says: `Out of your own household I am going to bring calamity upon you. Before your very eyes I will take your wives and give them to one who is close to you, and he will lie with your wives in broad daylight.
12:12	You did it in secret, but I will do this thing in broad daylight before all Israel.’“
12:13	Then David said to Nathan, “I have sinned against the LORD.” Nathan replied, “The LORD has taken away your sin. You are not going to die.
12:14	But because by doing this you have made the enemies of the LORD show utter contempt, [Masoretic Text; an ancient Hebrew scribal tradition this you have shown utter contempt for the LORD] the son born to you will die.”
12:15	After Nathan had gone home, the LORD struck the child that Uriah’s wife had borne to David, and he became ill.
12:16	David pleaded with God for the child. He fasted and went into his house and spent the nights lying on the ground.
12:17	The elders of his household stood beside him to get him up from the ground, but he refused, and he would not eat any food with them.
12:18	On the seventh day the child died. David’s servants were afraid to tell him that the child was dead, for they thought, “While the child was still living, we spoke to David but he would not listen to us. How can we tell him the child is dead? He may do something desperate.”
12:19	David noticed that his servants were whispering among themselves and he realised that the child was dead. “Is the child dead?” he asked. “Yes,” they replied, “he is dead.”
12:20	Then David got up from the ground. After he had washed, put on lotions and changed his clothes, he went into the house of the LORD and worshipped. Then he went to his own house, and at his request they served him food, and he ate.
12:21	His servants asked him, “Why are you acting in this way? While the child was alive, you fasted and wept, but now that the child is dead, you get up and eat!”
12:22	He answered, “While the child was still alive, I fasted and wept. I thought, `Who knows? The LORD may be gracious to me and let the child live.’
12:23	But now that he is dead, why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I will go to him, but he will not return to me.”
12:24	Then David comforted his wife Bathsheba, and he went to her and lay with her. She gave birth to a son, and they named him Solomon. The LORD loved him;
12:25	and because the LORD loved him, he sent word through Nathan the prophet to name him Jedidiah. [Jedidiah means loved by the LORD.]
12:26	Meanwhile Joab fought against Rabbah of the Ammonites and captured the royal citadel.
12:27	Joab then sent messengers to David, saying, “I have fought against Rabbah and taken its water supply.
12:28	Now muster the rest of the troops and besiege the city and capture it. Otherwise I shall take the city, and it will be named after me.”
12:29	So David mustered the entire army and went to Rabbah, and attacked and captured it.
12:30	He took the crown from the head of their king — [Or of Milcom (that is, Molech)] its weight was a talent [That is, about 75 pounds (about 34 kilograms)] of gold, and it was set with precious stones — and it was placed on David’s head. He took a great quantity of plunder from the city
12:31	and brought out the people who were there, consigning them to labour with saws and with iron picks and axes, and he made them work at brickmaking. [The meaning of the Hebrew for this clause is uncertain.] He did this to all the Ammonite towns. Then David and his entire army returned to Jerusalem.
13:1	In the course of time, Amnon son of David fell in love with Tamar, the beautiful sister of Absalom son of David.
13:2	Amnon became frustrated to the point of illness on account of his sister Tamar, for she was a virgin, and it seemed impossible for him to do anything to her.
13:3	Now Amnon had a friend named Jonadab son of Shimeah, David’s brother. Jonadab was a very shrewd man.
13:4	He asked Amnon, “Why do you, the king’s son, look so haggard morning after morning? Won’t you tell me?” Amnon said to him, “I’m in love with Tamar, my brother Absalom’s sister.”
13:5	“Go to bed and pretend to be ill,” Jonadab said. “When your father comes to see you, say to him, `I would like my sister Tamar to come and give me something to eat. Let her prepare the food in my sight so that I may watch her and then eat it from her hand.’“
13:6	So Amnon lay down and pretended to be ill. When the king came to see him, Amnon said to him, “I would like my sister Tamar to come and make some special bread in my sight, so that I may eat from her hand.”
13:7	David sent word to Tamar at the palace: “Go to the house of your brother Amnon and prepare some food for him.”
13:8	So Tamar went to the house of her brother Amnon, who was lying down. She took some dough, kneaded it, made the bread in his sight and baked it.
13:9	Then she took the pan and served him the bread, but he refused to eat. “Send everyone out of here,” Amnon said. So everyone left him.
13:10	Then Amnon said to Tamar, “Bring the food here into my bedroom so that I may eat from your hand.” And Tamar took the bread she had prepared and brought it to her brother Amnon in his bedroom.
13:11	But when she took it to him to eat, he grabbed her and said, “Come to bed with me, my sister.”
13:12	“Don’t, my brother!” she said to him. “Don’t force me. Such a thing should not be done in Israel! Don’t do this wicked thing.
13:13	What about me? Where could I get rid of my disgrace? And what about you? You would be like one of the wicked fools in Israel. Please speak to the king; he will not keep me from being married to you.”
13:14	But he refused to listen to her, and since he was stronger than she, he raped her.
13:15	Then Amnon hated her with intense hatred. In fact, he hated her more than he had loved her. Amnon said to her, “Get up and get out!”
13:16	“No!” she said to him. “Sending me away would be a greater wrong than what you have already done to me.” But he refused to listen to her.
13:17	He called his personal servant and said, “Get this woman out of here and bolt the door after her.”
13:18	So his servant put her out and bolted the door after her. She was wearing a richly ornamented [The meaning of the Hebrew for this phrase is uncertain; also in verse 19.] robe, for this was the kind of garment the virgin daughters of the king wore.
13:19	Tamar put ashes on her head and tore the ornamented robe she was wearing. She put her hand on her head and went away, weeping aloud as she went.
13:20	Her brother Absalom said to her, “Has that Amnon, your brother, been with you? Be quiet now, my sister; he is your brother. Don’t take this thing to heart.” And Tamar lived in her brother Absalom’s house, a desolate woman.
13:21	When King David heard all this, he was furious.
13:22	Absalom never said a word to Amnon, either good or bad; he hated Amnon because he had disgraced his sister Tamar.
13:23	Two years later, when Absalom’s sheep-shearers were at Baal Hazor near the border of Ephraim, he invited all the king’s sons to come there.
13:24	Absalom went to the king and said, “Your servant has had shearers come. Will the king and his officials please join me?”
13:25	“No, my son,” the king replied. “All of us should not go; we would only be a burden to you.” Although Absalom urged him, he still refused to go, but gave him his blessing.
13:26	Then Absalom said, “If not, please let my brother Amnon come with us.” The king asked him, “Why should he go with you?”
13:27	But Absalom urged him, so he sent with him Amnon and the rest of the king’s sons.
13:28	Absalom ordered his men, “Listen! When Amnon is in high spirits from drinking wine and I say to you, `Strike Amnon down,’ then kill him. Don’t be afraid. Have not I given you this order? Be strong and brave.”
13:29	So Absalom’s men did to Amnon what Absalom had ordered. Then all the king’s sons got up, mounted their mules and fled.
13:30	While they were on their way, the report came to David: “Absalom has struck down all the king’s sons; not one of them is left.”
13:31	The king stood up, tore his clothes and lay down on the ground; and all his servants stood by with their clothes torn.
13:32	But Jonadab son of Shimeah, David’s brother, said, “My lord should not think that they killed all the princes; only Amnon is dead. This has been Absalom’s expressed intention ever since the day that Amnon raped his sister Tamar.
13:33	My lord the king should not be concerned about the report that all the king’s sons are dead. Only Amnon is dead.”
13:34	Meanwhile, Absalom had fled. Now the man standing watch looked up and saw many people on the road west of him, coming down the side of the hill. The watchman went and told the king, “I see men in the direction of Horonaim, on the side of the hill.” [Septuagint; Hebrew does not have this sentence.]
13:35	Jonadab said to the king, “See, the king’s sons are here; it has happened just as your servant said.”
13:36	As he finished speaking, the king’s sons came in, wailing loudly. The king, too, and all his servants wept very bitterly.
13:37	Absalom fled and went to Talmai son of Ammihud, the king of Geshur. But King David mourned for his son every day.
13:38	After Absalom fled and went to Geshur, he stayed there for three years.
13:39	And the spirit of the king [Dead Sea Scrolls and some Septuagint manuscripts; Masoretic Text But the spirit of David the king] longed to go to Absalom, for he was consoled concerning Amnon’s death.
14:1	Joab son of Zeruiah knew that the king’s heart longed for Absalom.
14:2	So Joab sent someone to Tekoa and had a wise woman brought from there. He said to her, “Pretend you are in mourning. Dress in mourning clothes, and don’t use any cosmetic lotions. Act like a woman who has spent many days grieving for the dead.
14:3	Then go to the king and speak these words to him.” And Joab put the words in her mouth.
14:4	When the woman from Tekoa went [Many Hebrew manuscripts, Septuagint, Vulgate and Syriac; most Hebrew manuscripts spoke] to the king, she fell with her face to the ground to pay him honour, and she said, “Help me, O king!”
14:5	The king asked her, “What is troubling you?” She said, “I am indeed a widow; my husband is dead.
14:6	I your servant had two sons. They got into a fight with each other in the field, and no-one was there to separate them. One struck the other and killed him.
14:7	Now the whole clan has risen up against your servant; they say, `Hand over the one who struck his brother down, so that we may put him to death for the life of his brother whom he killed; then we will get rid of the heir as well.’ They would put out the only burning coal I have left, leaving my husband neither name nor descendant on the face of the earth.”
14:8	The king said to the woman, “Go home, and I will issue an order on your behalf.”
14:9	But the woman from Tekoa said to him, “My lord the king, let the blame rest on me and on my father’s family, and let the king and his throne be without guilt.”
14:10	The king replied, “If anyone says anything to you, bring him to me, and he will not bother you again.”
14:11	She said, “Then let the king invoke the LORD his God to prevent the avenger of blood from adding to the destruction, so that my son shall not be destroyed.” “As surely as the LORD lives,” he said, “not one hair of your son’s head will fall to the ground.”
14:12	Then the woman said, “Let your servant speak a word to my lord the king.” “Speak,” he replied.
14:13	The woman said, “Why then have you devised a thing like this against the people of God? When the king says this, does he not convict himself, for the king has not brought back his banished son?
14:14	Like water spilled on the ground, which cannot be recovered, so we must die. But God does not take away life; instead, he devises ways so that a banished person may not remain estranged from him.
14:15	“And now I have come to say this to my lord the king because the people have made me afraid. Your servant thought, `I will speak to the king; perhaps he will do what his servant asks.
14:16	Perhaps the king will agree to deliver his servant from the hand of the man who is trying to cut off both me and my son from the inheritance God gave us.’
14:17	“And now your servant says, `May the word of my lord the king bring me rest, for my lord the king is like an angel of God in discerning good and evil. May the LORD your God be with you.’“
14:18	Then the king said to the woman, “Do not keep from me the answer to what I am going to ask you.” “Let my lord the king speak,” the woman said.
14:19	The king asked, “Isn’t the hand of Joab with you in all this?” The woman answered, “As surely as you live, my lord the king, no-one can turn to the right or to the left from anything my lord the king says. Yes, it was your servant Joab who instructed me to do this and who put all these words into the mouth of your servant.
14:20	Your servant Joab did this to change the present situation. My lord has wisdom like that of an angel of God — he knows everything that happens in the land.”
14:21	The king said to Joab, “Very well, I will do it. Go, bring back the young man Absalom.”
14:22	Joab fell with his face to the ground to pay him honour, and he blessed the king. Joab said, “Today your servant knows that he has found favour in your eyes, my lord the king, because the king has granted his servant’s request.”
14:23	Then Joab went to Geshur and brought Absalom back to Jerusalem.
14:24	But the king said, “He must go to his own house; he must not see my face.” So Absalom went to his own house and did not see the face of the king.
14:25	In all Israel there was not a man so highly praised for his handsome appearance as Absalom. From the top of his head to the sole of his foot there was no blemish in him.
14:26	Whenever he cut the hair of his head — he used to cut his hair from time to time when it became too heavy for him — he would weigh it, and its weight was two hundred shekels [That is, about 5 pounds (about 2.3 kilograms)] by the royal standard.
14:27	Three sons and a daughter were born to Absalom. The daughter’s name was Tamar, and she became a beautiful woman.
14:28	Absalom lived for two years in Jerusalem without seeing the king’s face.
14:29	Then Absalom sent for Joab in order to send him to the king, but Joab refused to come to him. So he sent a second time, but he refused to come.
14:30	Then he said to his servants, “Look, Joab’s field is next to mine, and he has barley there. Go and set it on fire.” So Absalom’s servants set the field on fire.
14:31	Then Joab did go to Absalom’s house and he said to him, “Why have your servants set my field on fire?”
14:32	Absalom said to Joab, “Look, I sent word to you and said, `Come here so that I can send you to the king to ask, “Why have I come from Geshur? It would be better for me if I were still there!”’ Now then, I want to see the king’s face, and if I am guilty of anything, let him put me to death.”
14:33	So Joab went to the king and told him this. Then the king summoned Absalom, and he came in and bowed down with his face to the ground before the king. And the king kissed Absalom.
15:1	In the course of time, Absalom provided himself with a chariot and horses and with fifty men to run ahead of him.
15:2	He would get up early and stand by the side of the road leading to the city gate. Whenever anyone came with a complaint to be placed before the king for a decision, Absalom would call out to him, “What town are you from?” He would answer, “Your servant is from one of the tribes of Israel.”
15:3	Then Absalom would say to him, “Look, your claims are valid and proper, but there is no representative of the king to hear you.”
15:4	And Absalom would add, “If only I were appointed judge in the land! Then everyone who has a complaint or case could come to me and I would see that he receives justice.”
15:5	Also, whenever anyone approached him to bow down before him, Absalom would reach out his hand, take hold of him and kiss him.
15:6	Absalom behaved in this way towards all the Israelites who came to the king asking for justice, and so he stole the hearts of the men of Israel.
15:7	At the end of four [Some Septuagint manuscripts, Syriac and Josephus; Hebrew forty] years, Absalom said to the king, “Let me go to Hebron and fulfil a vow I made to the LORD.
15:8	While your servant was living at Geshur in Aram, I made this vow: `If the LORD takes me back to Jerusalem, I will worship the LORD in Hebron.’“ [Some Septuagint manuscripts; Hebrew does not have in Hebron.]
15:9	The king said to him, “Go in peace.” So he went to Hebron.
15:10	Then Absalom sent secret messengers throughout the tribes of Israel to say, “As soon as you hear the sound of the trumpets, then say, `Absalom is king in Hebron.’“
15:11	Two hundred men from Jerusalem had accompanied Absalom. They had been invited as guests and went quite innocently, knowing nothing about the matter.
15:12	While Absalom was offering sacrifices, he also sent for Ahithophel the Gilonite, David’s counsellor, to come from Giloh, his home town. And so the conspiracy gained strength, and Absalom’s following kept on increasing.
15:13	A messenger came and told David, “The hearts of the men of Israel are with Absalom.”
15:14	Then David said to all his officials who were with him in Jerusalem, “Come! We must flee, or none of us will escape from Absalom. We must leave immediately, or he will move quickly to overtake us and bring ruin upon us and put the city to the sword.”
15:15	The king’s officials answered him, “Your servants are ready to do whatever our lord the king chooses.”
15:16	The king set out, with his entire household following him; but he left ten concubines to take care of the palace.
15:17	So the king set out, with all the people following him, and they halted at a place some distance away.
15:18	All his men marched past him, along with all the Kerethites and Pelethites; and all the six hundred Gittites who had accompanied him from Gath marched before the king.
15:19	The king said to Ittai the Gittite, “Why should you come along with us? Go back and stay with King Absalom. You are a foreigner, an exile from your homeland.
15:20	You came only yesterday. And today shall I make you wander about with us, when I do not know where I am going? Go back, and take your countrymen. May kindness and faithfulness be with you.”
15:21	But Ittai replied to the king, “As surely as the LORD lives, and as my lord the king lives, wherever my lord the king may be, whether it means life or death, there will your servant be.”
15:22	David said to Ittai, “Go ahead, march on.” So Ittai the Gittite marched on with all his men and the families that were with him.
15:23	The whole countryside wept aloud as all the people passed by. The king also crossed the Kidron Valley, and all the people moved on towards the desert.
15:24	Zadok was there, too, and all the Levites who were with him were carrying the ark of the covenant of God. They set down the ark of God, and Abiathar offered sacrifices [Or Abiathar went up] until all the people had finished leaving the city.
15:25	Then the king said to Zadok, “Take the ark of God back into the city. If I find favour in the LORD’s eyes, he will bring me back and let me see it and his dwelling-place again.
15:26	But if he says, `I am not pleased with you,’ then I am ready; let him do to me whatever seems good to him.”
15:27	The king also said to Zadok the priest, “Aren’t you a seer? Go back to the city in peace, with your son Ahimaaz and Jonathan son of Abiathar. You and Abiathar take your two sons with you.
15:28	I will wait at the fords in the desert until word comes from you to inform me.”
15:29	So Zadok and Abiathar took the ark of God back to Jerusalem and stayed there.
15:30	But David continued up the Mount of Olives, weeping as he went; his head was covered and he was barefoot. All the people with him covered their heads too and were weeping as they went up.
15:31	Now David had been told, “Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom.” So David prayed, “O LORD, turn Ahithophel’s counsel into foolishness.”
15:32	When David arrived at the summit, where people used to worship God, Hushai the Arkite was there to meet him, his robe torn and dust on his head.
15:33	David said to him, “If you go with me, you will be a burden to me.
15:34	But if you return to the city and say to Absalom, `I will be your servant, O king; I was your father’s servant in the past, but now I will be your servant,’ then you can help me by frustrating Ahithophel’s advice.
15:35	Won’t the priests Zadok and Abiathar be there with you? Tell them anything you hear in the king’s palace.
15:36	Their two sons, Ahimaaz son of Zadok and Jonathan son of Abiathar, are there with them. Send them to me with anything you hear.”
15:37	So David’s friend Hushai arrived at Jerusalem as Absalom was entering the city.
16:1	When David had gone a short distance beyond the summit, there was Ziba, the steward of Mephibosheth, waiting to meet him. He had a string of donkeys saddled and loaded with two hundred loaves of bread, a hundred cakes of raisins, a hundred cakes of figs and a skin of wine.
16:2	The king asked Ziba, “Why have you brought these?” Ziba answered, “The donkeys are for the king’s household to ride on, the bread and fruit are for the men to eat, and the wine is to refresh those who become exhausted in the desert.”
16:3	The king then asked, “Where is your master’s grandson?” Ziba said to him, “He is staying in Jerusalem, because he thinks, `Today the house of Israel will give me back my grandfather’s kingdom.’“
16:4	Then the king said to Ziba, “All that belonged to Mephibosheth is now yours.” “I humbly bow,” Ziba said. “May I find favour in your eyes, my lord the king.”
16:5	As King David approached Bahurim, a man from the same clan as Saul’s family came out from there. His name was Shimei son of Gera, and he cursed as he came out.
16:6	He pelted David and all the king’s officials with stones, though all the troops and the special guard were on David’s right and left.
16:7	As he cursed, Shimei said, “Get out, get out, you man of blood, you scoundrel!
16:8	The LORD has repaid you for all the blood you shed in the household of Saul, in whose place you have reigned. The LORD has handed the kingdom over to your son Absalom. You have come to ruin because you are a man of blood!”
16:9	Then Abishai son of Zeruiah said to the king, “Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? Let me go over and cut off his head.”
16:10	But the king said, “What do you and I have in common, you sons of Zeruiah? If he is cursing because the LORD said to him, `Curse David,’ who can ask, `Why do you do this?’“
16:11	David then said to Abishai and all his officials, “My son, who is of my own flesh, is trying to take my life. How much more, then, this Benjamite! Leave him alone; let him curse, for the LORD has told him to.
16:12	It may be that the LORD will see my distress and repay me with good for the cursing I am receiving today.”
16:13	So David and his men continued along the road while Shimei was going along the hillside opposite him, cursing as he went and throwing stones at him and showering him with dirt.
16:14	The king and all the people with him arrived at their destination exhausted. And there he refreshed himself.
16:15	Meanwhile, Absalom and all the men of Israel came to Jerusalem, and Ahithophel was with him.
16:16	Then Hushai the Arkite, David’s friend, went to Absalom and said to him, “Long live the king! Long live the king!”
16:17	Absalom asked Hushai, “Is this the love you show your friend? Why didn’t you go with your friend?”
16:18	Hushai said to Absalom, “No, the one chosen by the LORD, by these people and by all the men of Israel — his I will be, and I will remain with him.
16:19	Furthermore, whom should I serve? Should I not serve the son? Just as I served your father, so I will serve you.”
16:20	Absalom said to Ahithophel, “Give us your advice. What should we do?”
16:21	Ahithophel answered, “Lie with your father’s concubines whom he left to take care of the palace. Then all Israel will hear that you have made yourself an offence to your father’s nostrils, and the hands of everyone with you will be strengthened.”
16:22	So they pitched a tent for Absalom on the roof, and he lay with his father’s concubines in the sight of all Israel.
16:23	Now in those days the advice Ahithophel gave was like that of one who enquires of God. That was how both David and Absalom regarded all of Ahithophel’s advice.
17:1	Ahithophel said to Absalom, “I would [Or Let me] choose twelve thousand men and set out tonight in pursuit of David.
17:2	I would [Or will] attack him while he is weary and weak. I would [Or will] strike him with terror, and then all the people with him will flee. I would [Or will] strike down only the king
17:3	and bring all the people back to you. The death of the man you seek will mean the return of all; all the people will be unharmed.”
17:4	This plan seemed good to Absalom and to all the elders of Israel.
17:5	But Absalom said, “Summon also Hushai the Arkite, so that we can hear what he has to say.”
17:6	When Hushai came to him, Absalom said, “Ahithophel has given this advice. Should we do what he says? If not, give us your opinion.”
17:7	Hushai replied to Absalom, “The advice Ahithophel has given is not good this time.
17:8	You know your father and his men; they are fighters, and as fierce as a wild bear robbed of her cubs. Besides, your father is an experienced fighter; he will not spend the night with the troops.
17:9	Even now, he is hidden in a cave or some other place. If he should attack your troops first, [Or When some of the men fall at the first attack] whoever hears about it will say, `There has been a slaughter among the troops who follow Absalom.’
17:10	Then even the bravest soldier, whose heart is like the heart of a lion, will melt with fear, for all Israel knows that your father is a fighter and that those with him are brave.
17:11	“So I advise you: Let all Israel, from Dan to Beersheba — as numerous as the sand on the seashore — be gathered to you, with you yourself leading them into battle.
17:12	Then we will attack him wherever he may be found, and we will fall on him as dew settles on the ground. Neither he nor any of his men will be left alive.
17:13	If he withdraws into a city, then all Israel will bring ropes to that city, and we will drag it down to the valley until not even a piece of it can be found.”
17:14	Absalom and all the men of Israel said, “The advice of Hushai the Arkite is better than that of Ahithophel.” For the LORD had determined to frustrate the good advice of Ahithophel in order to bring disaster on Absalom.
17:15	Hushai told Zadok and Abiathar, the priests, “Ahithophel has advised Absalom and the elders of Israel to do such and such, but I have advised them to do so and so.
17:16	Now send a message immediately and tell David, `Do not spend the night at the fords in the desert; cross over without fail, or the king and all the people with him will be swallowed up.’“
17:17	Jonathan and Ahimaaz were staying at En Rogel. A servant girl was to go and inform them, and they were to go and tell King David, for they could not risk being seen entering the city.
17:18	But a young man saw them and told Absalom. So the two of them left quickly and went to the house of a man in Bahurim. He had a well in his courtyard, and they climbed down into it.
17:19	His wife took a covering and spread it out over the opening of the well and scattered grain over it. No-one knew anything about it.
17:20	When Absalom’s men came to the woman at the house, they asked, “Where are Ahimaaz and Jonathan?” The woman answered them, “They crossed over the brook.” [Or “They passed by the sheep pen towards the water.”] The men searched but found no-one, so they returned to Jerusalem.
17:21	After the men had gone, the two climbed out of the well and went to inform King David. They said to him, “Set out and cross the river at once; Ahithophel has advised such and such against you.”
17:22	So David and all the people with him set out and crossed the Jordan. By daybreak, no-one was left who had not crossed the Jordan.
17:23	When Ahithophel saw that his advice had not been followed, he saddled his donkey and set out for his house in his home town. He put his house in order and then hanged himself. So he died and was buried in his father’s tomb.
17:24	David went to Mahanaim, and Absalom crossed the Jordan with all the men of Israel.
17:25	Absalom had appointed Amasa over the army in place of Joab. Amasa was the son of a man named Jether, [Hebrew Ithra, a variant of Jether] an Israelite [Hebrew and some Septuagint manuscripts; other Septuagint manuscripts (see also 1 Chron. 2:17) Ishmaelite or Jezreelite] who had married Abigail, [Hebrew Abigal, a variant of Abigail] the daughter of Nahash and sister of Zeruiah the mother of Joab.
17:26	The Israelites and Absalom camped in the land of Gilead.
17:27	When David came to Mahanaim, Shobi son of Nahash from Rabbah of the Ammonites, and Makir son of Ammiel from Lo Debar, and Barzillai the Gileadite from Rogelim
17:28	brought bedding and bowls and articles of pottery. They also brought wheat and barley, flour and roasted grain, beans and lentils, [Most Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac; Hebrew lentils, and roasted grain]
17:29	honey and curds, sheep, and cheese from cows’ milk for David and his people to eat. For they said, “The people have become hungry and tired and thirsty in the desert.”
18:1	David mustered the men who were with him and appointed over them commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds.
18:2	David sent the troops out — a third under the command of Joab, a third under Joab’s brother Abishai son of Zeruiah, and a third under Ittai the Gittite. The king told the troops, “I myself will surely march out with you.”
18:3	But the men said, “You must not go out; if we are forced to flee, they won’t care about us. Even if half of us die, they won’t care; but you are worth ten thousand of us. [Two Hebrew manuscripts, some Septuagint manuscripts and Vulgate; most Hebrew manuscripts care; for now there are ten thousand like us] It would be better now for you to give us support from the city.”
18:4	The king answered, “I will do whatever seems best to you.” So the king stood beside the gate while all the men marched out in units of hundreds and of thousands.
18:5	The king commanded Joab, Abishai and Ittai, “Be gentle with the young man Absalom for my sake.” And all the troops heard the king giving orders concerning Absalom to each of the commanders.
18:6	The army marched into the field to fight Israel, and the battle took place in the forest of Ephraim.
18:7	There the army of Israel was defeated by David’s men, and the casualties that day were great — twenty thousand men.
18:8	The battle spread out over the whole countryside, and the forest claimed more lives that day than the sword.
18:9	Now Absalom happened to meet David’s men. He was riding his mule, and as the mule went under the thick branches of a large oak, Absalom’s head got caught in the tree. He was left hanging in mid-air, while the mule he was riding kept on going.
18:10	When one of the men saw this, he told Joab, “I have just seen Absalom hanging in an oak tree.”
18:11	Joab said to the man who had told him this, “What! You saw him? Why didn’t you strike him to the ground right there? Then I would have had to give you ten shekels [That is, about 4 ounces (about 115 grams)] of silver and a warrior’s belt.”
18:12	But the man replied, “Even if a thousand shekels [That is, about 25 pounds (about 11 kilograms)] were weighed out into my hands, I would not lift my hand against the king’s son. In our hearing the king commanded you and Abishai and Ittai, `Protect the young man Absalom for my sake.’ [A few Hebrew manuscripts, Septuagint, Vulgate and Syriac; most Hebrew manuscripts may be translated Absalom, whoever you may be.]
18:13	And if I had put my life in jeopardy — [Or Otherwise, if I had acted treacherously towards him] and nothing is hidden from the king — you would have kept your distance from me.”
18:14	Joab said, “I am not going to wait like this for you.” So he took three javelins in his hand and plunged them into Absalom’s heart while Absalom was still alive in the oak tree.
18:15	And ten of Joab’s armour-bearers surrounded Absalom, struck him and killed him.
18:16	Then Joab sounded the trumpet, and the troops stopped pursuing Israel, for Joab halted them.
18:17	They took Absalom, threw him into a big pit in the forest and piled up a large heap of rocks over him. Meanwhile, all the Israelites fled to their homes.
18:18	During his life-time Absalom had taken a pillar and erected it in the King’s Valley as a monument to himself, for he thought, “I have no son to carry on the memory of my name.” He named the pillar after himself, and it is called Absalom’s Monument to this day.
18:19	Now Ahimaaz son of Zadok said, “Let me run and take the news to the king that the LORD has delivered him from the hand of his enemies.”
18:20	“You are not the one to take the news today,” Joab told him. “You may take the news another time, but you must not do so today, because the king’s son is dead.”
18:21	Then Joab said to a Cushite, “Go, tell the king what you have seen.” The Cushite bowed down before Joab and ran off.
18:22	Ahimaaz son of Zadok again said to Joab, “Come what may, please let me run behind the Cushite.” But Joab replied, “My son, why do you want to go? You don’t have any news that will bring you a reward.”
18:23	He said, “Come what may, I want to run.” So Joab said, “Run!” Then Ahimaaz ran by way of the plain [That is, the plain of the Jordan] and outran the Cushite.
18:24	While David was sitting between the inner and outer gates, the watchman went up to the roof of the gateway by the wall. As he looked out, he saw a man running alone.
18:25	The watchman called out to the king and reported it. The king said, “If he is alone, he must have good news.” And the man came closer and closer.
18:26	Then the watchman saw another man running, and he called down to the gatekeeper, “Look, another man running alone!” The king said, “He must be bringing good news, too.”
18:27	The watchman said, “It seems to me that the first one runs like Ahimaaz son of Zadok.” “He’s a good man,” the king said. “He comes with good news.”
18:28	Then Ahimaaz called out to the king, “All is well!” He bowed down before the king with his face to the ground and said, “Praise be to the LORD your God! He has delivered up the men who lifted their hands against my lord the king.”
18:29	The king asked, “Is the young man Absalom safe?” Ahimaaz answered, “I saw great confusion just as Joab was about to send the king’s servant and me, your servant, but I don’t know what it was.”
18:30	The king said, “Stand aside and wait here.” So he stepped aside and stood there.
18:31	Then the Cushite arrived and said, “My lord the king, hear the good news! The LORD has delivered you today from all who rose up against you.”
18:32	The king asked the Cushite, “Is the young man Absalom safe?” The Cushite replied, “May the enemies of my lord the king and all who rise up to harm you be like that young man.”
18:33	The king was shaken. He went up to the room over the gateway and wept. As he went, he said: “O my son Absalom! My son, my son Absalom! If only I had died instead of you — O Absalom, my son, my son!”
19:1	Joab was told, “The king is weeping and mourning for Absalom.”
19:2	And for the whole army the victory that day was turned into mourning, because on that day the troops heard it said, “The king is grieving for his son.”
19:3	The men stole into the city that day as men steal in who are ashamed when they flee from battle.
19:4	The king covered his face and cried aloud, “O my son Absalom! O Absalom, my son, my son!”
19:5	Then Joab went into the house to the king and said, “Today you have humiliated all your men, who have just saved your life and the lives of your sons and daughters and the lives of your wives and concubines.
19:6	You love those who hate you and hate those who love you. You have made it clear today that the commanders and their men mean nothing to you. I see that you would be pleased if Absalom were alive today and all of us were dead.
19:7	Now go out and encourage your men. I swear by the LORD that if you don’t go out, not a man will be left with you by nightfall. This will be worse for you than all the calamities that have come upon you from your youth till now.”
19:8	So the king got up and took his seat in the gateway. When the men were told, “The king is sitting in the gateway,” they all came before him. Meanwhile, the Israelites had fled to their homes.
19:9	Throughout the tribes of Israel, the people were all arguing with each other, saying, “The king delivered us from the hand of our enemies; he is the one who rescued us from the hand of the Philistines. But now he has fled the country because of Absalom;
19:10	and Absalom, whom we anointed to rule over us, has died in battle. So why do you say nothing about bringing the king back?”
19:11	King David sent this message to Zadok and Abiathar, the priests: “Ask the elders of Judah, `Why should you be the last to bring the king back to his palace, since what is being said throughout Israel has reached the king at his quarters?
19:12	You are my brothers, my own flesh and blood. So why should you be the last to bring back the king?’
19:13	And say to Amasa, `Are you not my own flesh and blood? May God deal with me, be it ever so severely, if from now on you are not the commander of my army in place of Joab.’“
19:14	He won over the hearts of all the men of Judah as though they were one man. They sent word to the king, “Return, you and all your men.”
19:15	Then the king returned and went as far as the Jordan. Now the men of Judah had come to Gilgal to go out and meet the king and bring him across the Jordan.
19:16	Shimei son of Gera, the Benjamite from Bahurim, hurried down with the men of Judah to meet King David.
19:17	With him were a thousand Benjamites, along with Ziba, the steward of Saul’s household, and his fifteen sons and twenty servants. They rushed to the Jordan, where the king was.
19:18	They crossed at the ford to take the king’s household over and to do whatever he wished. When Shimei son of Gera crossed the Jordan, he fell prostrate before the king
19:19	and said to him, “May my lord not hold me guilty. Do not remember how your servant did wrong on the day my lord the king left Jerusalem. May the king put it out of his mind.
19:20	For I your servant know that I have sinned, but today I have come here as the first of the whole house of Joseph to come down and meet my lord the king.”
19:21	Then Abishai son of Zeruiah said, “Shouldn’t Shimei be put to death for this? He cursed the LORD’s anointed.”
19:22	David replied, “What do you and I have in common, you sons of Zeruiah? This day you have become my adversaries! Should anyone be put to death in Israel today? Do I not know that today I am king over Israel?”
19:23	So the king said to Shimei, “You shall not die.” And the king promised him on oath.
19:24	Mephibosheth, Saul’s grandson, also went down to meet the king. He had not taken care of his feet or trimmed his moustache or washed his clothes from the day the king left until the day he returned safely.
19:25	When he came from Jerusalem to meet the king, the king asked him, “Why didn’t you go with me, Mephibosheth?”
19:26	He said, “My lord the king, since I your servant am lame, I said, `I will have my donkey saddled and will ride on it, so that I can go with the king.’ But Ziba my servant betrayed me.
19:27	And he has slandered your servant to my lord the king. My lord the king is like an angel of God; so do whatever pleases you.
19:28	All my grandfather’s descendants deserved nothing but death from my lord the king, but you gave your servant a place among those who eat at your table. So what right do I have to make any more appeals to the king?”
19:29	The king said to him, “Why say more? I order you and Ziba to divide the fields.”
19:30	Mephibosheth said to the king, “Let him take everything, now that my lord the king has arrived home safely.”
19:31	Barzillai the Gileadite also came down from Rogelim to cross the Jordan with the king and to send him on his way from there.
19:32	Now Barzillai was a very old man, eighty years of age. He had provided for the king during his stay in Mahanaim, for he was a very wealthy man.
19:33	The king said to Barzillai, “Cross over with me and stay with me in Jerusalem, and I will provide for you.”
19:34	But Barzillai answered the king, “How many more years shall I live, that I should go up to Jerusalem with the king?
19:35	I am now eighty years old. Can I tell the difference between what is good and what is not? Can your servant taste what he eats and drinks? Can I still hear the voices of men and women singers? Why should your servant be an added burden to my lord the king?
19:36	Your servant will cross over the Jordan with the king for a short distance, but why should the king reward me in this way?
19:37	Let your servant return, that I may die in my own town near the tomb of my father and mother. But here is your servant Kimham. Let him cross over with my lord the king. Do for him whatever pleases you.”
19:38	The king said, “Kimham shall cross over with me, and I will do for him whatever pleases you. And anything you desire from me I will do for you.”
19:39	So all the people crossed the Jordan, and then the king crossed over. The king kissed Barzillai and gave him his blessing, and Barzillai returned to his home.
19:40	When the king crossed over to Gilgal, Kimham crossed with him. All the troops of Judah and half the troops of Israel had taken the king over.
19:41	Soon all the men of Israel were coming to the king and saying to him, “Why did our brothers, the men of Judah, steal the king away and bring him and his household across the Jordan, together with all his men?”
19:42	All the men of Judah answered the men of Israel, “We did this because the king is closely related to us. Why are you angry about it? Have we eaten any of the king’s provisions? Have we taken anything for ourselves?”
19:43	Then the men of Israel answered the men of Judah, “We have ten shares in the king; and besides, we have a greater claim on David than you have. So why do you treat us with contempt? Were we not the first to speak of bringing back our king?” But the men of Judah responded even more harshly than the men of Israel.
20:1	Now a troublemaker named Sheba son of Bicri, a Benjamite, happened to be there. He sounded the trumpet and shouted, “We have no share in David, no part in Jesse’s son! Every man to his tent, O Israel!”
20:2	So all the men of Israel deserted David to follow Sheba son of Bicri. But the men of Judah stayed by their king all the way from the Jordan to Jerusalem.
20:3	When David returned to his palace in Jerusalem, he took the ten concubines he had left to take care of the palace and put them in a house under guard. He provided for them, but did not lie with them. They were kept in confinement till the day of their death, living as widows.
20:4	Then the king said to Amasa, “Summon the men of Judah to come to me within three days, and be here yourself.”
20:5	But when Amasa went to summon Judah, he took longer than the time the king had set for him.
20:6	David said to Abishai, “Now Sheba son of Bicri will do us more harm than Absalom did. Take your master’s men and pursue him, or he will find fortified cities and escape from us.”
20:7	So Joab’s men and the Kerethites and Pelethites and all the mighty warriors went out under the command of Abishai. They marched out from Jerusalem to pursue Sheba son of Bicri.
20:8	While they were at the great rock in Gibeon, Amasa came to meet them. Joab was wearing his military tunic, and strapped over it at his waist was a belt with a dagger in its sheath. As he stepped forward, it dropped out of its sheath.
20:9	Joab said to Amasa, “How are you, my brother?” Then Joab took Amasa by the beard with his right hand to kiss him.
20:10	Amasa was not on his guard against the dagger in Joab’s hand, and Joab plunged it into his belly, and his intestines spilled out on the ground. Without being stabbed again, Amasa died. Then Joab and his brother Abishai pursued Sheba son of Bicri.
20:11	One of Joab’s men stood beside Amasa and said, “Whoever favours Joab, and whoever is for David, let him follow Joab!”
20:12	Amasa lay wallowing in his blood in the middle of the road, and the man saw that all the troops came to a halt there. When he realised that everyone who came up to Amasa stopped, he dragged him from the road into a field and threw a garment over him.
20:13	After Amasa had been removed from the road, all the men went on with Joab to pursue Sheba son of Bicri.
20:14	Sheba passed through all the tribes of Israel to Abel Beth Maacah [Or Abel, even Beth Maacah; also in verse 15] and through the entire region of the Berites, who gathered together and followed him.
20:15	All the troops with Joab came and besieged Sheba in Abel Beth Maacah. They built a siege ramp up to the city, and it stood against the outer fortifications. While they were battering the wall to bring it down,
20:16	a wise woman called from the city, “Listen! Listen! Tell Joab to come here so that I can speak to him.”
20:17	He went towards her, and she asked, “Are you Joab?” “I am,” he answered. She said, “Listen to what your servant has to say.” “I’m listening,” he said.
20:18	She continued, “Long ago they used to say, `Get your answer at Abel,’ and that settled it.
20:19	We are the peaceful and faithful in Israel. You are trying to destroy a city that is a mother in Israel. Why do you want to swallow up the LORD’s inheritance?”
20:20	“Far be it from me!” Joab replied, “Far be it from me to swallow up or destroy!
20:21	That is not the case. A man named Sheba son of Bicri, from the hill country of Ephraim, has lifted up his hand against the king, against David. Hand over this one man, and I’ll withdraw from the city.” The woman said to Joab, “His head will be thrown to you from the wall.”
20:22	Then the woman went to all the people with her wise advice, and they cut off the head of Sheba son of Bicri and threw it to Joab. So he sounded the trumpet, and his men dispersed from the city, each returning to his home. And Joab went back to the king in Jerusalem.
20:23	Joab was over Israel’s entire army; Benaiah son of Jehoiada was over the Kerethites and Pelethites;
20:24	Adoniram [Some Septuagint manuscripts (see also 1 Kings 4:6 and 5:14); Hebrew Adoram] was in charge of forced labour; Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was recorder;
20:25	Sheva was secretary; Zadok and Abiathar were priests;
20:26	and Ira the Jairite was David’s priest.
21:1	During the reign of David, there was a famine for three successive years; so David sought the face of the LORD. The LORD said, “It is on account of Saul and his blood-stained house; it is because he put the Gibeonites to death.”
21:2	The king summoned the Gibeonites and spoke to them. (Now the Gibeonites were not a part of Israel but were survivors of the Amorites; the Israelites had sworn to spare them, but Saul in his zeal for Israel and Judah had tried to annihilate them.)
21:3	David asked the Gibeonites, “What shall I do for you? How shall I make amends so that you will bless the LORD’s inheritance?”
21:4	The Gibeonites answered him, “We have no right to demand silver or gold from Saul or his family, nor do we have the right to put anyone in Israel to death.” “What do you want me to do for you?” David asked.
21:5	They answered the king, “As for the man who destroyed us and plotted against us so that we have been decimated and have no place anywhere in Israel,
21:6	let seven of his male descendants be given to us to be killed and exposed before the LORD at Gibeah of Saul — the LORD’s chosen one.” So the king said, “I will give them to you.”
21:7	The king spared Mephibosheth son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, because of the oath before the LORD between David and Jonathan son of Saul.
21:8	But the king took Armoni and Mephibosheth, the two sons of Aiah’s daughter Rizpah, whom she had borne to Saul, together with the five sons of Saul’s daughter Merab, [Two Hebrew manuscripts, some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac (see also 1 Samuel 18:19); most Hebrew and Septuagint manuscripts Michal] whom she had borne to Adriel son of Barzillai the Meholathite.
21:9	He handed them over to the Gibeonites, who killed and exposed them on a hill before the LORD. All seven of them fell together; they were put to death during the first days of harvest, just as the barley harvest was beginning.
21:10	Rizpah daughter of Aiah took sackcloth and spread it out for herself on a rock. From the beginning of the harvest till the rain poured down from the heavens on the bodies, she did not let the birds of the air touch them by day or the wild animals by night.
21:11	When David was told what Aiah’s daughter Rizpah, Saul’s concubine, had done,
21:12	he went and took the bones of Saul and his son Jonathan from the citizens of Jabesh Gilead. (They had taken them secretly from the public square at Beth Shan, where the Philistines had hung them after they struck Saul down on Gilboa.)
21:13	David brought the bones of Saul and his son Jonathan from there, and the bones of those who had been killed and exposed were gathered up.
21:14	They buried the bones of Saul and his son Jonathan in the tomb of Saul’s father Kish, at Zela in Benjamin, and did everything the king commanded. After that, God answered prayer on behalf of the land.
21:15	Once again there was a battle between the Philistines and Israel. David went down with his men to fight against the Philistines, and he became exhausted.
21:16	And Ishbi-Benob, one of the descendants of Rapha, whose bronze spearhead weighed three hundred shekels [That is, about 7 1/2 pounds (about 3.5 kilograms)] and who was armed with a new sword, said he would kill David.
21:17	But Abishai son of Zeruiah came to David’s rescue; he struck the Philistine down and killed him. Then David’s men swore to him, saying, “Never again will you go out with us to battle, so that the lamp of Israel will not be extinguished.”
21:18	In the course of time, there was another battle with the Philistines, at Gob. At that time Sibbecai the Hushathite killed Saph, one of the descendants of Rapha.
21:19	In another battle with the Philistines at Gob, Elhanan son of Jaare-Oregim [Or son of Jair the weaver] the Bethlehemite killed Goliath [Hebrew and Septuagint; 1 Chron. 20:5 son of Jair killed Lahmi the brother of Goliath] the Gittite, who had a spear with a shaft like a weaver’s rod.
21:20	In still another battle, which took place at Gath, there was a huge man with six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot — twenty-four in all. He also was descended from Rapha.
21:21	When he taunted Israel, Jonathan son of Shimeah, David’s brother, killed him.
21:22	These four were descendants of Rapha in Gath, and they fell at the hands of David and his men.
22:1	David sang to the LORD the words of this song when the LORD delivered him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul.
22:2	He said: “The LORD is my rock, my fortress and my deliverer;
22:3	my God is my rock, in whom I take refuge, my shield and the horn [Horn here symbolises strength.] of my salvation. He is my stronghold, my refuge and my saviour — from violent men you save me.
22:4	I call to the LORD, who is worthy of praise, and I am saved from my enemies.
22:5	“The waves of death swirled about me; the torrents of destruction overwhelmed me.
22:6	The cords of the grave [Hebrew Sheol] coiled around me; the snares of death confronted me.
22:7	In my distress I called to the LORD; I called out to my God. From his temple he heard my voice; my cry came to his ears.
22:8	“The earth trembled and quaked, the foundations of the heavens [Hebrew; Vulgate and Syriac (see also Psalm 18:7) mountains] shook; they trembled because he was angry.
22:9	Smoke rose from his nostrils; consuming fire came from his mouth, burning coals blazed out of it.
22:10	He parted the heavens and came down; dark clouds were under his feet.
22:11	He mounted the cherubim and flew; he soared [Many Hebrew manuscripts (see also Psalm 18:10); most Hebrew manuscripts appeared] on the wings of the wind.
22:12	He made darkness his canopy around him — the dark [Septuagint and Vulgate (see also Psalm 18:11); Hebrew massed] rain clouds of the sky.
22:13	Out of the brightness of his presence bolts of lightning blazed forth.
22:14	The LORD thundered from heaven; the voice of the Most High resounded.
22:15	He shot arrows and scattered the enemies, bolts of lightning and routed them.
22:16	The valleys of the sea were exposed and the foundations of the earth laid bare at the rebuke of the LORD, at the blast of breath from his nostrils.
22:17	“He reached down from on high and took hold of me; he drew me out of deep waters.
22:18	He rescued me from my powerful enemy, from my foes, who were too strong for me.
22:19	They confronted me in the day of my disaster, but the LORD was my support.
22:20	He brought me out into a spacious place; he rescued me because he delighted in me.
22:21	“The LORD has dealt with me according to my righteousness; according to the cleanness of my hands he has rewarded me.
22:22	For I have kept the ways of the LORD; I have not done evil by turning from my God.
22:23	All his laws are before me; I have not turned away from his decrees.
22:24	I have been blameless before him and have kept myself from sin.
22:25	The LORD has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to my cleanness [Hebrew; Septuagint and Vulgate (see also Psalm 18:24) to the cleanness of my hands] in his sight.
22:26	“To the faithful you show yourself faithful, to the blameless you show yourself blameless,
22:27	to the pure you show yourself pure, but to the crooked you show yourself shrewd.
22:28	You save the humble, but your eyes are on the haughty to bring them low.
22:29	You are my lamp, O LORD; the LORD turns my darkness into light.
22:30	With your help I can advance against a troop; [Or can run through a barricade] with my God I can scale a wall.
22:31	“As for God, his way is perfect; the word of the LORD is flawless. He is a shield for all who take refuge in him.
22:32	For who is God besides the LORD? And who is the Rock except our God?
22:33	It is God who arms me with strength [Dead Sea Scrolls, some Septuagint manuscripts, Vulgate and Syriac (see also Psalm 18:32); Masoretic Text who is my strong refuge] and makes my way perfect.
22:34	He makes my feet like the feet of a deer; he enables me to stand on the heights.
22:35	He trains my hands for battle; my arms can bend a bow of bronze.
22:36	You give me your shield of victory; you stoop down to make me great.
22:37	You broaden the path beneath me, so that my ankles do not turn over.
22:38	“I pursued my enemies and crushed them; I did not turn back till they were destroyed.
22:39	I crushed them completely, and they could not rise; they fell beneath my feet.
22:40	You armed me with strength for battle; you made my adversaries bow at my feet.
22:41	You made my enemies turn their backs in flight, and I destroyed my foes.
22:42	They cried for help, but there was no-one to save them — to the LORD, but he did not answer.
22:43	I beat them as fine as the dust of the earth; I pounded and trampled them like mud in the streets.
22:44	“You have delivered me from the attacks of my people; you have preserved me as the head of nations. People I did not know are subject to me,
22:45	and foreigners come cringing to me; as soon as they hear me, they obey me.
22:46	They all lose heart; they come trembling [Some Septuagint manuscripts and Vulgate (see also Psalm 18:45); Masoretic Text they arm themselves.] from their strongholds.
22:47	“The LORD lives! Praise be to my Rock! Exalted be God, the Rock, my Saviour!
22:48	He is the God who avenges me, who puts the nations under me,
22:49	who sets me free from my enemies. You exalted me above my foes; from violent men you rescued me.
22:50	Therefore I will praise you, O LORD, among the nations; I will sing praises to your name.
22:51	He gives his king great victories; he shows unfailing kindness to his anointed, to David and his descendants for ever.”
23:1	These are the last words of David: “The oracle of David son of Jesse, the oracle of the man exalted by the Most High, the man anointed by the God of Jacob, Israel’s singer of songs: [Or Israel’s beloved singer]
23:2	“The Spirit of the LORD spoke through me; his word was on my tongue.
23:3	The God of Israel spoke, the Rock of Israel said to me: `When one rules over men in righteousness, when he rules in the fear of God,
23:4	he is like the light of morning at sunrise on a cloudless morning, like the brightness after rain that brings the grass from the earth.’
23:5	“Is not my house right with God? Has he not made with me an everlasting covenant, arranged and secured in every part? Will he not bring to fruition my salvation and grant me my every desire?
23:6	But evil men are all to be cast aside like thorns, which are not gathered with the hand.
23:7	Whoever touches thorns uses a tool of iron or the shaft of a spear; they are burned up where they lie.”
23:8	These are the names of David’s mighty men: Josheb-Basshebeth, [Hebrew; some Septuagint manuscripts suggest Ish-Bosheth, that is, Esh-Baal (see also 1 Chron. 11:11 Jashobeam).] a Tahkemonite, [Probably a variant of Hacmonite (see 1 Chron. 11:11)] was chief of the Three; he raised his spear against eight hundred men, whom he killed [Some Septuagint manuscripts (see also 1 Chron. 11:11); Hebrew and other Septuagint manuscripts Three; it was Adino the Eznite who killed eight hundred men] in one encounter.
23:9	Next to him was Eleazar son of Dodai the Ahohite. As one of the three mighty men, he was with David when they taunted the Philistines gathered at Pas Dammim [See 1 Chron. 11:13; Hebrew gathered there.] for battle. Then the men of Israel retreated,
23:10	but he stood his ground and struck down the Philistines till his hand grew tired and froze to the sword. The LORD brought about a great victory that day. The troops returned to Eleazar, but only to strip the dead.
23:11	Next to him was Shammah son of Agee the Hararite. When the Philistines banded together at a place where there was a field full of lentils, Israel’s troops fled from them.
23:12	But Shammah took his stand in the middle of the field. He defended it and struck the Philistines down, and the LORD brought about a great victory.
23:13	During harvest time, three of the thirty chief men came down to David at the cave of Adullam, while a band of Philistines was encamped in the Valley of Rephaim.
23:14	At that time David was in the stronghold, and the Philistine garrison was at Bethlehem.
23:15	David longed for water and said, “Oh, that someone would get me a drink of water from the well near the gate of Bethlehem!”
23:16	So the three mighty men broke through the Philistine lines, drew water from the well near the gate of Bethlehem and carried it back to David. But he refused to drink it; instead, he poured it out before the LORD.
23:17	“Far be it from me, O LORD, to do this!” he said. “Is it not the blood of men who went at the risk of their lives?” And David would not drink it. Such were the exploits of the three mighty men.
23:18	Abishai the brother of Joab son of Zeruiah was chief of the Three. [Most Hebrew manuscripts (see also 1 Chron. 11:20); two Hebrew manuscripts and Syriac Thirty] He raised his spear against three hundred men, whom he killed, and so he became as famous as the Three.
23:19	Was he not held in greater honour than the Three? He became their commander, even though he was not included among them.
23:20	Benaiah son of Jehoiada was a valiant fighter from Kabzeel, who performed great exploits. He struck down two of Moab’s best men. He also went down into a pit on a snowy day and killed a lion.
23:21	And he struck down a huge Egyptian. Although the Egyptian had a spear in his hand, Benaiah went against him with a club. He snatched the spear from the Egyptian’s hand and killed him with his own spear.
23:22	Such were the exploits of Benaiah son of Jehoiada; he too was as famous as the three mighty men.
23:23	He was held in greater honour than any of the Thirty, but he was not included among the Three. And David put him in charge of his bodyguard.
23:24	Among the Thirty were: Asahel the brother of Joab, Elhanan son of Dodo from Bethlehem,
23:25	Shammah the Harodite, Elika the Harodite,
23:26	Helez the Paltite, Ira son of Ikkesh from Tekoa,
23:27	Abiezer from Anathoth, Mebunnai [Hebrew; some Septuagint manuscripts (see also 1 Chron. 11:29) Sibbecai] the Hushathite,
23:28	Zalmon the Ahohite, Maharai the Netophathite,
23:29	Heled [Some Hebrew manuscripts and Vulgate (see also 1 Chron. 11:30); most Hebrew manuscripts Heleb] son of Baanah the Netophathite, Ithai son of Ribai from Gibeah in Benjamin,
23:30	Benaiah the Pirathonite, Hiddai [Hebrew; some Septuagint manuscripts (see also 1 Chron. 11:32) Hurai] from the ravines of Gaash,
23:31	Abi-Albon the Arbathite, Azmaveth the Barhumite,
23:32	Eliahba the Shaalbonite, the sons of Jashen, Jonathan
23:33	son of [Some Septuagint manuscripts (see also 1 Chron. 11:34); Hebrew does not have son of.] Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam son of Sharar [Hebrew; some Septuagint manuscripts (see also 1 Chron. 11:35) Sacar] the Hararite,
23:34	Eliphelet son of Ahasbai the Maacathite, Eliam son of Ahithophel the Gilonite,
23:35	Hezro the Carmelite, Paarai the Arbite,
23:36	Igal son of Nathan from Zobah, the son of Hagri, [Some Septuagint manuscripts (see also 1 Chron. 11:38); Hebrew Haggadi]
23:37	Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Beerothite, the armour-bearer of Joab son of Zeruiah,
23:38	Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite
23:39	and Uriah the Hittite. There were thirty-seven in all.
24:1	Again the anger of the LORD burned against Israel, and he incited David against them, saying, “Go and take a census of Israel and Judah.”
24:2	So the king said to Joab and the army commanders [Septuagint (see also verse 4 and 1 Chron. 21:2); Hebrew Joab the army commander] with him, “Go throughout the tribes of Israel from Dan to Beersheba and enrol the fighting men, so that I may know how many there are.”
24:3	But Joab replied to the king, “May the LORD your God multiply the troops a hundred times over, and may the eyes of my lord the king see it. But why does my lord the king want to do such a thing?”
24:4	The king’s word, however, overruled Joab and the army commanders; so they left the presence of the king to enrol the fighting men of Israel.
24:5	After crossing the Jordan, they camped near Aroer, south of the town in the gorge, and then went through Gad and on to Jazer.
24:6	They went to Gilead and the region of Tahtim Hodshi, and on to Dan Jaan and around towards Sidon.
24:7	Then they went towards the fortress of Tyre and all the towns of the Hivites and Canaanites. Finally, they went on to Beersheba in the Negev of Judah.
24:8	After they had gone through the entire land, they came back to Jerusalem at the end of nine months and twenty days.
24:9	Joab reported the number of the fighting men to the king: In Israel there were eight hundred thousand able-bodied men who could handle a sword, and in Judah five hundred thousand.
24:10	David was conscience-stricken after he had counted the fighting men, and he said to the LORD, “I have sinned greatly in what I have done. Now, O LORD, I beg you, take away the guilt of your servant. I have done a very foolish thing.”
24:11	Before David got up the next morning, the word of the LORD had come to Gad the prophet, David’s seer:
24:12	“Go and tell David, `This is what the LORD says: I am giving you three options. Choose one of them for me to carry out against you.’“
24:13	So Gad went to David and said to him, “Shall there come upon you three [Septuagint (see also 1 Chron. 21:12); Hebrew seven] years of famine in your land? Or three months of fleeing from your enemies while they pursue you? Or three days of plague in your land? Now then, think it over and decide how I should answer the one who sent me.”
24:14	David said to Gad, “I am in deep distress. Let us fall into the hands of the LORD, for his mercy is great; but do not let me fall into the hands of men.”
24:15	So the LORD sent a plague on Israel from that morning until the end of the time designated, and seventy thousand of the people from Dan to Beersheba died.
24:16	When the angel stretched out his hand to destroy Jerusalem, the LORD was grieved because of the calamity and said to the angel who was afflicting the people, “Enough! Withdraw your hand.” The angel of the LORD was then at the threshing-floor of Araunah the Jebusite.
24:17	When David saw the angel who was striking down the people, he said to the LORD, “I am the one who has sinned and done wrong. These are but sheep. What have they done? Let your hand fall upon me and my family.”
24:18	On that day Gad went to David and said to him, “Go up and build an altar to the LORD on the threshing-floor of Araunah the Jebusite.”
24:19	So David went up, as the LORD had commanded through Gad.
24:20	When Araunah looked and saw the king and his men coming towards him, he went out and bowed down before the king with his face to the ground.
24:21	Araunah said, “Why has my lord the king come to his servant?” “To buy your threshing-floor,” David answered, “so that I can build an altar to the LORD, that the plague on the people may be stopped.”
24:22	Araunah said to David, “Let my lord the king take whatever pleases him and offer it up. Here are oxen for the burnt offering, and here are threshing-sledges and ox yokes for the wood.
24:23	king, Araunah gives all this to the king.” Araunah also said to him, “May the LORD your God accept you.”
24:24	But the king replied to Araunah, “No, I insist on paying you for it. I will not sacrifice to the LORD my God burnt offerings that cost me nothing.” So David bought the threshing-floor and the oxen and paid fifty shekels [That is, about 1 1/4 pounds (about 0.6 kilogram)] of silver for them.
24:25	David built an altar to the LORD there and sacrificed burnt offerings and fellowship offerings. [Traditionally peace offerings] Then the LORD answered prayer on behalf of the land, and the plague on Israel was stopped.
