








The First Book of
SAMUEL




Chapter 1


Elkanah and His Wives

          1      Now there was a certain man from Ramathaim-zophim from the hill country of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite. 
          2      He had two wives: the name of one was Hannah and the name of the other Peninnah; and Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children. 
          3      Now this man would go up from his city yearly to worship and to sacrifice to the LORD of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were priests to the LORD there. 
          4      When the day came that Elkanah sacrificed, he would give portions to Peninnah his wife and to all her sons and her daughters; 
          5      but to Hannah he would give a double portion, for he loved Hannah, but the LORD had closed her womb. 
          6      Her rival, however, would provoke her bitterly to irritate her, because the LORD had closed her womb. 
          7      It happened year after year, as often as she went up to the house of the LORD, she would provoke her; so she wept and would not eat. 
          8      Then Elkanah her husband said to her, “Hannah, why do you weep and why do you not eat and why is your heart sad? Am I not better to you than ten sons?” 
          9      Then Hannah rose after eating and drinking in Shiloh. Now Eli the priest was sitting on the seat by the doorpost of the temple of the LORD. 
          10      She, greatly distressed, prayed to the LORD and wept bitterly. 
          11      She made a vow and said, “O LORD of hosts, if You will indeed look on the affliction of Your maidservant and remember me, and not forget Your maidservant, but will give Your maidservant a son, then I will give him to the LORD all the days of his life, and a razor shall never come on his head.” 
          12      Now it came about, as she continued praying before the LORD, that Eli was watching her mouth. 
          13      As for Hannah, she was speaking in her heart, only her lips were moving, but her voice was not heard. So Eli thought she was drunk. 
          14      Then Eli said to her, “How long will you make yourself drunk? Put away your wine from you.” 
          15      But Hannah replied, “No, my lord, I am a woman oppressed in spirit; I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but I have poured out my soul before the LORD. 
          16      “Do not consider your maidservant as a worthless woman, for I have spoken until now out of my great concern and provocation.” 
          17      Then Eli answered and said, “Go in peace; and may the God of Israel grant your petition that you have asked of Him.” 
          18      She said, “Let your maidservant find favor in your sight.” So the woman went her way and ate, and her face was no longer sad. 

Samuel Is Born to Hannah

          19      Then they arose early in the morning and worshiped before the LORD, and returned again to their house in Ramah. And Elkanah had relations with Hannah his wife, and the LORD remembered her. 
          20      It came about in due time, after Hannah had conceived, that she gave birth to a son; and she named him Samuel, saying, “Because I have asked him of the LORD.” 
          21      Then the man Elkanah went up with all his household to offer to the LORD the yearly sacrifice and pay his vow. 
          22      But Hannah did not go up, for she said to her husband, “I will not go up until the child is weaned; then I will bring him, that he may appear before the LORD and stay there forever.” 
          23      Elkanah her husband said to her, “Do what seems best to you. Remain until you have weaned him; only may the LORD confirm His word.” So the woman remained and nursed her son until she weaned him. 
          24      Now when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with a three-year-old bull and one ephah of flour and a jug of wine, and brought him to the house of the LORD in Shiloh, although the child was young. 
          25      Then they slaughtered the bull, and brought the boy to Eli. 
          26      She said, “Oh, my lord! As your soul lives, my lord, I am the woman who stood here beside you, praying to the LORD. 
          27      “For this boy I prayed, and the LORD has given me my petition which I asked of Him. 
          28      “So I have also dedicated him to the LORD; as long as he lives he is dedicated to the LORD.” And he worshiped the LORD there. 




Chapter 2


Hannah’s Song of Thanksgiving

          1      Then Hannah prayed and said, 
         “My heart exults in the LORD; 
         My horn is exalted in the LORD, 
         My mouth speaks boldly against my enemies, 
         Because I rejoice in Your salvation. 
               2      “There is no one holy like the LORD, 
         Indeed, there is no one besides You, 
         Nor is there any rock like our God. 
               3      “Boast no more so very proudly, 
         Do not let arrogance come out of your mouth; 
         For the LORD is a God of knowledge, 
         And with Him actions are weighed. 
               4      “The bows of the mighty are shattered, 
         But the feeble gird on strength. 
               5      “Those who were full hire themselves out for bread, 
         But those who were hungry cease to hunger. 
         Even the barren gives birth to seven, 
         But she who has many children languishes. 
               6      “The LORD kills and makes alive; 
         He brings down to Sheol and raises up. 
               7      “The LORD makes poor and rich; 
         He brings low, He also exalts. 
               8      “He raises the poor from the dust, 
         He lifts the needy from the ash heap 
         To make them sit with nobles, 
         And inherit a seat of honor; 
         For the pillars of the earth are the LORD’S, 
         And He set the world on them. 
               9      “He keeps the feet of His godly ones, 
         But the wicked ones are silenced in darkness; 
         For not by might shall a man prevail. 
               10      “Those who contend with the LORD will be shattered; 
         Against them He will thunder in the heavens, 
         The LORD will judge the ends of the earth; 
         And He will give strength to His king, 
         And will exalt the horn of His anointed.” 
          11      Then Elkanah went to his home at Ramah. But the boy ministered to the LORD before Eli the priest. 

The Sin of Eli’s Sons

          12      Now the sons of Eli were worthless men; they did not know the LORD 
          13      and the custom of the priests with the people. When any man was offering a sacrifice, the priest’s servant would come while the meat was boiling, with a three-pronged fork in his hand. 
          14      Then he would thrust it into the pan, or kettle, or caldron, or pot; all that the fork brought up the priest would take for himself. Thus they did in Shiloh to all the Israelites who came there. 
          15      Also, before they burned the fat, the priest’s servant would come and say to the man who was sacrificing, “Give the priest meat for roasting, as he will not take boiled meat from you, only raw.” 
          16      If the man said to him, “They must surely burn the fat first, and then take as much as you desire,” then he would say, “No, but you shall give it to me now; and if not, I will take it by force.” 
          17      Thus the sin of the young men was very great before the LORD, for the men despised the offering of the LORD. 

Samuel before the LORD as a Boy

          18      Now Samuel was ministering before the LORD, as a boy wearing a linen ephod. 
          19      And his mother would make him a little robe and bring it to him from year to year when she would come up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice. 
          20      Then Eli would bless Elkanah and his wife and say, “May the LORD give you children from this woman in place of the one she dedicated to the LORD.” And they went to their own home. 
          21      The LORD visited Hannah; and she conceived and gave birth to three sons and two daughters. And the boy Samuel grew before the LORD. 

Eli Rebukes His Sons

          22      Now Eli was very old; and he heard all that his sons were doing to all Israel, and how they lay with the women who served at the doorway of the tent of meeting. 
          23      He said to them, “Why do you do such things, the evil things that I hear from all these people? 
          24      “No, my sons; for the report is not good which I hear the LORD’S people circulating. 
          25      “If one man sins against another, God will mediate for him; but if a man sins against the LORD, who can intercede for him?” But they would not listen to the voice of their father, for the LORD desired to put them to death. 
          26      Now the boy Samuel was growing in stature and in favor both with the LORD and with men. 
          27      Then a man of God came to Eli and said to him, “Thus says the LORD, ‘Did I not indeed reveal Myself to the house of your father when they were in Egypt in bondage to Pharaoh’s house? 
          28      ‘Did I not choose them from all the tribes of Israel to be My priests, to go up to My altar, to burn incense, to carry an ephod before Me; and did I not give to the house of your father all the fire offerings of the sons of Israel? 
          29      ‘Why do you kick at My sacrifice and at My offering which I have commanded in My dwelling, and honor your sons above Me, by making yourselves fat with the choicest of every offering of My people Israel?’ 
          30      “Therefore the LORD God of Israel declares, ‘I did indeed say that your house and the house of your father should walk before Me forever’; but now the LORD declares, ‘Far be it from Me—for those who honor Me I will honor, and those who despise Me will be lightly esteemed. 
          31      ‘Behold, the days are coming when I will break your strength and the strength of your father’s house so that there will not be an old man in your house. 
          32      ‘You will see the distress of My dwelling, in spite of all the good that I do for Israel; and an old man will not be in your house forever. 
          33      ‘Yet I will not cut off every man of yours from My altar so that your eyes will fail from weeping and your soul grieve, and all the increase of your house will die in the prime of life. 
          34      ‘This will be the sign to you which will come concerning your two sons, Hophni and Phinehas: on the same day both of them will die. 
          35      ‘But I will raise up for Myself a faithful priest who will do according to what is in My heart and in My soul; and I will build him an enduring house, and he will walk before My anointed always. 
          36      ‘Everyone who is left in your house will come and bow down to him for a piece of silver or a loaf of bread and say, “Please assign me to one of the priest’s offices so that I may eat a piece of bread.” ’ ” 




Chapter 3


The Prophetic Call to Samuel

          1      Now the boy Samuel was ministering to the LORD before Eli. And word from the LORD was rare in those days, visions were infrequent. 
          2      It happened at that time as Eli was lying down in his place (now his eyesight had begun to grow dim and he could not see well), 
          3      and the lamp of God had not yet gone out, and Samuel was lying down in the temple of the LORD where the ark of God was, 
          4      that the LORD called Samuel; and he said, “Here I am.” 
          5      Then he ran to Eli and said, “Here I am, for you called me.” But he said, “I did not call, lie down again.” So he went and lay down. 
          6      The LORD called yet again, “Samuel!” So Samuel arose and went to Eli and said, “Here I am, for you called me.” But he answered, “I did not call, my son, lie down again.” 
          7      Now Samuel did not yet know the LORD, nor had the word of the LORD yet been revealed to him. 
          8      So the LORD called Samuel again for the third time. And he arose and went to Eli and said, “Here I am, for you called me.” Then Eli discerned that the LORD was calling the boy. 
          9      And Eli said to Samuel, “Go lie down, and it shall be if He calls you, that you shall say, ‘Speak, LORD, for Your servant is listening.’ ” So Samuel went and lay down in his place. 
          10      Then the LORD came and stood and called as at other times, “Samuel! Samuel!” And Samuel said, “Speak, for Your servant is listening.” 
          11      The LORD said to Samuel, “Behold, I am about to do a thing in Israel at which both ears of everyone who hears it will tingle. 
          12      “In that day I will carry out against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house, from beginning to end. 
          13      “For I have told him that I am about to judge his house forever for the iniquity which he knew, because his sons brought a curse on themselves and he did not rebuke them. 
          14      “Therefore I have sworn to the house of Eli that the iniquity of Eli’s house shall not be atoned for by sacrifice or offering forever.” 
          15      So Samuel lay down until morning. Then he opened the doors of the house of the LORD. But Samuel was afraid to tell the vision to Eli. 
          16      Then Eli called Samuel and said, “Samuel, my son.” And he said, “Here I am.” 
          17      He said, “What is the word that He spoke to you? Please do not hide it from me. May God do so to you, and more also, if you hide anything from me of all the words that He spoke to you.” 
          18      So Samuel told him everything and hid nothing from him. And he said, “It is the LORD; let Him do what seems good to Him.” 
          19      Thus Samuel grew and the LORD was with him and let none of his words fail. 
          20      All Israel from Dan even to Beersheba knew that Samuel was confirmed as a prophet of the LORD. 
          21      And the LORD appeared again at Shiloh, because the LORD revealed Himself to Samuel at Shiloh by the word of the LORD. 




Chapter 4


Philistines Take the Ark in Victory

          1      Thus the word of Samuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out to meet the Philistines in battle and camped beside Ebenezer while the Philistines camped in Aphek. 
          2      The Philistines drew up in battle array to meet Israel. When the battle spread, Israel was defeated before the Philistines who killed about four thousand men on the battlefield. 
          3      When the people came into the camp, the elders of Israel said, “Why has the LORD defeated us today before the Philistines? Let us take to ourselves from Shiloh the ark of the covenant of the LORD, that it may come among us and deliver us from the power of our enemies.” 
          4      So the people sent to Shiloh, and from there they carried the ark of the covenant of the LORD of hosts who sits above the cherubim; and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God. 
          5      As the ark of the covenant of the LORD came into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth resounded. 
          6      When the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said, “What does the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews mean?” Then they understood that the ark of the LORD had come into the camp. 
          7      The Philistines were afraid, for they said, “God has come into the camp.” And they said, “Woe to us! For nothing like this has happened before. 
          8      “Woe to us! Who shall deliver us from the hand of these mighty gods? These are the gods who smote the Egyptians with all kinds of plagues in the wilderness. 
          9      “Take courage and be men, O Philistines, or you will become slaves to the Hebrews, as they have been slaves to you; therefore, be men and fight.” 
          10      So the Philistines fought and Israel was defeated, and every man fled to his tent; and the slaughter was very great, for there fell of Israel thirty thousand foot soldiers. 
          11      And the ark of God was taken; and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, died. 
          12      Now a man of Benjamin ran from the battle line and came to Shiloh the same day with his clothes torn and dust on his head. 
          13      When he came, behold, Eli was sitting on his seat by the road eagerly watching, because his heart was trembling for the ark of God. So the man came to tell it in the city, and all the city cried out. 
          14      When Eli heard the noise of the outcry, he said, “What does the noise of this commotion mean?” Then the man came hurriedly and told Eli. 
          15      Now Eli was ninety-eight years old, and his eyes were set so that he could not see. 
          16      The man said to Eli, “I am the one who came from the battle line. Indeed, I escaped from the battle line today.” And he said, “How did things go, my son?” 
          17      Then the one who brought the news replied, “Israel has fled before the Philistines and there has also been a great slaughter among the people, and your two sons also, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God has been taken.” 
          18      When he mentioned the ark of God, Eli fell off the seat backward beside the gate, and his neck was broken and he died, for he was old and heavy. Thus he judged Israel forty years. 
          19      Now his daughter-in-law, Phinehas’s wife, was pregnant and about to give birth; and when she heard the news that the ark of God was taken and that her father-in-law and her husband had died, she kneeled down and gave birth, for her pains came upon her. 
          20      And about the time of her death the women who stood by her said to her, “Do not be afraid, for you have given birth to a son.” But she did not answer or pay attention. 
          21      And she called the boy Ichabod, saying, “The glory has departed from Israel,” because the ark of God was taken and because of her father-in-law and her husband. 
          22      She said, “The glory has departed from Israel, for the ark of God was taken.” 




Chapter 5


Capture of the Ark Provokes God

          1      Now the Philistines took the ark of God and brought it from Ebenezer to Ashdod. 
          2      Then the Philistines took the ark of God and brought it to the house of Dagon and set it by Dagon. 
          3      When the Ashdodites arose early the next morning, behold, Dagon had fallen on his face to the ground before the ark of the LORD. So they took Dagon and set him in his place again. 
          4      But when they arose early the next morning, behold, Dagon had fallen on his face to the ground before the ark of the LORD. And the head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands were cut off on the threshold; only the trunk of Dagon was left to him. 
          5      Therefore neither the priests of Dagon nor all who enter Dagon’s house tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod to this day. 
          6      Now the hand of the LORD was heavy on the Ashdodites, and He ravaged them and smote them with tumors, both Ashdod and its territories. 
          7      When the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, “The ark of the God of Israel must not remain with us, for His hand is severe on us and on Dagon our god.” 
          8      So they sent and gathered all the lords of the Philistines to them and said, “What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel?” And they said, “Let the ark of the God of Israel be brought around to Gath.” And they brought the ark of the God of Israel around. 
          9      After they had brought it around, the hand of the LORD was against the city with very great confusion; and He smote the men of the city, both young and old, so that tumors broke out on them. 
          10      So they sent the ark of God to Ekron. And as the ark of God came to Ekron the Ekronites cried out, saying, “They have brought the ark of the God of Israel around to us, to kill us and our people.” 
          11      They sent therefore and gathered all the lords of the Philistines and said, “Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return to its own place, so that it will not kill us and our people.” For there was a deadly confusion throughout the city; the hand of God was very heavy there. 
          12      And the men who did not die were smitten with tumors and the cry of the city went up to heaven. 




Chapter 6


The Ark Returned to Israel

          1      Now the ark of the LORD had been in the country of the Philistines seven months. 
          2      And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, “What shall we do with the ark of the LORD? Tell us how we shall send it to its place.” 
          3      They said, “If you send away the ark of the God of Israel, do not send it empty; but you shall surely return to Him a guilt offering. Then you will be healed and it will be known to you why His hand is not removed from you.” 
          4      Then they said, “What shall be the guilt offering which we shall return to Him?” And they said, “Five golden tumors and five golden mice according to the number of the lords of the Philistines, for one plague was on all of you and on your lords. 
          5      “So you shall make likenesses of your tumors and likenesses of your mice that ravage the land, and you shall give glory to the God of Israel; perhaps He will ease His hand from you, your gods, and your land. 
          6      “Why then do you harden your hearts as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? When He had severely dealt with them, did they not allow the people to go, and they departed? 
          7      “Now therefore, take and prepare a new cart and two milch cows on which there has never been a yoke; and hitch the cows to the cart and take their calves home, away from them. 
          8      “Take the ark of the LORD and place it on the cart; and put the articles of gold which you return to Him as a guilt offering in a box by its side. Then send it away that it may go. 
          9      “Watch, if it goes up by the way of its own territory to Beth-shemesh, then He has done us this great evil. But if not, then we will know that it was not His hand that struck us; it happened to us by chance.” 
          10      Then the men did so, and took two milch cows and hitched them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home. 
          11      They put the ark of the LORD on the cart, and the box with the golden mice and the likenesses of their tumors. 
          12      And the cows took the straight way in the direction of Beth-shemesh; they went along the highway, lowing as they went, and did not turn aside to the right or to the left. And the lords of the Philistines followed them to the border of Beth-shemesh. 
          13      Now the people of Beth-shemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley, and they raised their eyes and saw the ark and were glad to see it. 
          14      The cart came into the field of Joshua the Beth-shemite and stood there where there was a large stone; and they split the wood of the cart and offered the cows as a burnt offering to the LORD. 
          15      The Levites took down the ark of the LORD and the box that was with it, in which were the articles of gold, and put them on the large stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt offerings and sacrificed sacrifices that day to the LORD. 
          16      When the five lords of the Philistines saw it, they returned to Ekron that day. 
          17      These are the golden tumors which the Philistines returned for a guilt offering to the LORD: one for Ashdod, one for Gaza, one for Ashkelon, one for Gath, one for Ekron; 
          18      and the golden mice, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both of fortified cities and of country villages. The large stone on which they set the ark of the LORD is a witness to this day in the field of Joshua the Beth-shemite. 
          19      He struck down some of the men of Beth-shemesh because they had looked into the ark of the LORD. He struck down of all the people, 50,070 men, and the people mourned because the LORD had struck the people with a great slaughter. 
          20      The men of Beth-shemesh said, “Who is able to stand before the LORD, this holy God? And to whom shall He go up from us?” 
          21      So they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, “The Philistines have brought back the ark of the LORD; come down and take it up to you.” 




Chapter 7


Deliverance from the Philistines

          1      And the men of Kiriath-jearim came and took the ark of the LORD and brought it into the house of Abinadab on the hill, and consecrated Eleazar his son to keep the ark of the LORD. 
          2      From the day that the ark remained at Kiriath-jearim, the time was long, for it was twenty years; and all the house of Israel lamented after the LORD. 
          3      Then Samuel spoke to all the house of Israel, saying, “If you return to the LORD with all your heart, remove the foreign gods and the Ashtaroth from among you and direct your hearts to the LORD and serve Him alone; and He will deliver you from the hand of the Philistines.” 
          4      So the sons of Israel removed the Baals and the Ashtaroth and served the LORD alone. 
          5      Then Samuel said, “Gather all Israel to Mizpah and I will pray to the LORD for you.” 
          6      They gathered to Mizpah, and drew water and poured it out before the LORD, and fasted on that day and said there, “We have sinned against the LORD.” And Samuel judged the sons of Israel at Mizpah. 
          7      Now when the Philistines heard that the sons of Israel had gathered to Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the sons of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines. 
          8      Then the sons of Israel said to Samuel, “Do not cease to cry to the LORD our God for us, that He may save us from the hand of the Philistines.” 
          9      Samuel took a suckling lamb and offered it for a whole burnt offering to the LORD; and Samuel cried to the LORD for Israel and the LORD answered him. 
          10      Now Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, and the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel. But the LORD thundered with a great thunder on that day against the Philistines and confused them, so that they were routed before Israel. 
          11      The men of Israel went out of Mizpah and pursued the Philistines, and struck them down as far as below Beth-car. 
          12      Then Samuel took a stone and set it between Mizpah and Shen, and named it Ebenezer, saying, “Thus far the LORD has helped us.” 
          13      So the Philistines were subdued and they did not come anymore within the border of Israel. And the hand of the LORD was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel. 
          14      The cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even to Gath; and Israel delivered their territory from the hand of the Philistines. So there was peace between Israel and the Amorites. 

Samuel’s Ministry

          15      Now Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life. 
          16      He used to go annually on circuit to Bethel and Gilgal and Mizpah, and he judged Israel in all these places. 
          17      Then his return was to Ramah, for his house was there, and there he judged Israel; and he built there an altar to the LORD. 




Chapter 8


Israel Demands a King

          1      And it came about when Samuel was old that he appointed his sons judges over Israel. 
          2      Now the name of his firstborn was Joel, and the name of his second, Abijah; they were judging in Beersheba. 
          3      His sons, however, did not walk in his ways, but turned aside after dishonest gain and took bribes and perverted justice. 
          4      Then all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at Ramah; 
          5      and they said to him, “Behold, you have grown old, and your sons do not walk in your ways. Now appoint a king for us to judge us like all the nations.” 
          6      But the thing was displeasing in the sight of Samuel when they said, “Give us a king to judge us.” And Samuel prayed to the LORD. 
          7      The LORD said to Samuel, “Listen to the voice of the people in regard to all that they say to you, for they have not rejected you, but they have rejected Me from being king over them. 
          8      “Like all the deeds which they have done since the day that I brought them up from Egypt even to this day—in that they have forsaken Me and served other gods—so they are doing to you also. 
          9      “Now then, listen to their voice; however, you shall solemnly warn them and tell them of the procedure of the king who will reign over them.” 

Warning concerning a King

          10      So Samuel spoke all the words of the LORD to the people who had asked of him a king. 
          11      He said, “This will be the procedure of the king who will reign over you: he will take your sons and place them for himself in his chariots and among his horsemen and they will run before his chariots. 
          12      “He will appoint for himself commanders of thousands and of fifties, and some to do his plowing and to reap his harvest and to make his weapons of war and equipment for his chariots. 
          13      “He will also take your daughters for perfumers and cooks and bakers. 
          14      “He will take the best of your fields and your vineyards and your olive groves and give them to his servants. 
          15      “He will take a tenth of your seed and of your vineyards and give to his officers and to his servants. 
          16      “He will also take your male servants and your female servants and your best young men and your donkeys and use them for his work. 
          17      “He will take a tenth of your flocks, and you yourselves will become his servants. 
          18      “Then you will cry out in that day because of your king whom you have chosen for yourselves, but the LORD will not answer you in that day.” 
          19      Nevertheless, the people refused to listen to the voice of Samuel, and they said, “No, but there shall be a king over us, 
          20      that we also may be like all the nations, that our king may judge us and go out before us and fight our battles.” 
          21      Now after Samuel had heard all the words of the people, he repeated them in the LORD’S hearing. 
          22      The LORD said to Samuel, “Listen to their voice and appoint them a king.” So Samuel said to the men of Israel, “Go every man to his city.” 




Chapter 9


Saul’s Search

          1      Now there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah, the son of a Benjamite, a mighty man of valor. 
          2      He had a son whose name was Saul, a choice and handsome man, and there was not a more handsome person than he among the sons of Israel; from his shoulders and up he was taller than any of the people. 
          3      Now the donkeys of Kish, Saul’s father, were lost. So Kish said to his son Saul, “Take now with you one of the servants, and arise, go search for the donkeys.” 
          4      He passed through the hill country of Ephraim and passed through the land of Shalishah, but they did not find them. Then they passed through the land of Shaalim, but they were not there. Then he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they did not find them. 
          5      When they came to the land of Zuph, Saul said to his servant who was with him, “Come, and let us return, or else my father will cease to be concerned about the donkeys and will become anxious for us.” 
          6      He said to him, “Behold now, there is a man of God in this city, and the man is held in honor; all that he says surely comes true. Now let us go there, perhaps he can tell us about our journey on which we have set out.” 
          7      Then Saul said to his servant, “But behold, if we go, what shall we bring the man? For the bread is gone from our sack and there is no present to bring to the man of God. What do we have?” 
          8      The servant answered Saul again and said, “Behold, I have in my hand a fourth of a shekel of silver; I will give it to the man of God and he will tell us our way.” 
          9      (Formerly in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he used to say, “Come, and let us go to the seer”; for he who is called a prophet now was formerly called a seer.) 
          10      Then Saul said to his servant, “Well said; come, let us go.” So they went to the city where the man of God was. 
          11      As they went up the slope to the city, they found young women going out to draw water and said to them, “Is the seer here?” 
          12      They answered them and said, “He is; see, he is ahead of you. Hurry now, for he has come into the city today, for the people have a sacrifice on the high place today. 
          13      “As soon as you enter the city you will find him before he goes up to the high place to eat, for the people will not eat until he comes, because he must bless the sacrifice; afterward those who are invited will eat. Now therefore, go up for you will find him at once.” 
          14      So they went up to the city. As they came into the city, behold, Samuel was coming out toward them to go up to the high place. 

God’s Choice for King

          15      Now a day before Saul’s coming, the LORD had revealed this to Samuel saying, 
          16      “About this time tomorrow I will send you a man from the land of Benjamin, and you shall anoint him to be prince over My people Israel; and he will deliver My people from the hand of the Philistines. For I have regarded My people, because their cry has come to Me.” 
          17      When Samuel saw Saul, the LORD said to him, “Behold, the man of whom I spoke to you! This one shall rule over My people.” 
          18      Then Saul approached Samuel in the gate and said, “Please tell me where the seer’s house is.” 
          19      Samuel answered Saul and said, “I am the seer. Go up before me to the high place, for you shall eat with me today; and in the morning I will let you go, and will tell you all that is on your mind. 
          20      “As for your donkeys which were lost three days ago, do not set your mind on them, for they have been found. And for whom is all that is desirable in Israel? Is it not for you and for all your father’s household?” 
          21      Saul replied, “Am I not a Benjamite, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel, and my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? Why then do you speak to me in this way?” 
          22      Then Samuel took Saul and his servant and brought them into the hall and gave them a place at the head of those who were invited, who were about thirty men. 
          23      Samuel said to the cook, “Bring the portion that I gave you, concerning which I said to you, ‘Set it aside.’ ” 
          24      Then the cook took up the leg with what was on it and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, “Here is what has been reserved! Set it before you and eat, because it has been kept for you until the appointed time, since I said I have invited the people.” So Saul ate with Samuel that day. 
          25      When they came down from the high place into the city, Samuel spoke with Saul on the roof. 
          26      And they arose early; and at daybreak Samuel called to Saul on the roof, saying, “Get up, that I may send you away.” So Saul arose, and both he and Samuel went out into the street. 
          27      As they were going down to the edge of the city, Samuel said to Saul, “Say to the servant that he might go ahead of us and pass on, but you remain standing now, that I may proclaim the word of God to you.” 




Chapter 10


Saul among Prophets

          1      Then Samuel took the flask of oil, poured it on his head, kissed him and said, “Has not the LORD anointed you a ruler over His inheritance? 
          2      “When you go from me today, then you will find two men close to Rachel’s tomb in the territory of Benjamin at Zelzah; and they will say to you, ‘The donkeys which you went to look for have been found. Now behold, your father has ceased to be concerned about the donkeys and is anxious for you, saying, “What shall I do about my son?” ’ 
          3      “Then you will go on further from there, and you will come as far as the oak of Tabor, and there three men going up to God at Bethel will meet you, one carrying three young goats, another carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying a jug of wine; 
          4      and they will greet you and give you two loaves of bread, which you will accept from their hand. 
          5      “Afterward you will come to the hill of God where the Philistine garrison is; and it shall be as soon as you have come there to the city, that you will meet a group of prophets coming down from the high place with harp, tambourine, flute, and a lyre before them, and they will be prophesying. 
          6      “Then the Spirit of the LORD will come upon you mightily, and you shall prophesy with them and be changed into another man. 
          7      “It shall be when these signs come to you, do for yourself what the occasion requires, for God is with you. 
          8      “And you shall go down before me to Gilgal; and behold, I will come down to you to offer burnt offerings and sacrifice peace offerings. You shall wait seven days until I come to you and show you what you should do.” 
          9      Then it happened when he turned his back to leave Samuel, God changed his heart; and all those signs came about on that day. 
          10      When they came to the hill there, behold, a group of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came upon him mightily, so that he prophesied among them. 
          11      It came about, when all who knew him previously saw that he prophesied now with the prophets, that the people said to one another, “What has happened to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?” 
          12      A man there said, “Now, who is their father?” Therefore it became a proverb: “Is Saul also among the prophets?” 
          13      When he had finished prophesying, he came to the high place. 
          14      Now Saul’s uncle said to him and his servant, “Where did you go?” And he said, “To look for the donkeys. When we saw that they could not be found, we went to Samuel.” 
          15      Saul’s uncle said, “Please tell me what Samuel said to you.” 
          16      So Saul said to his uncle, “He told us plainly that the donkeys had been found.” But he did not tell him about the matter of the kingdom which Samuel had mentioned. 

Saul Publicly Chosen King

          17      Thereafter Samuel called the people together to the LORD at Mizpah; 
          18      and he said to the sons of Israel, “Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, ‘I brought Israel up from Egypt, and I delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians and from the power of all the kingdoms that were oppressing you.’ 
          19      “But you have today rejected your God, who delivers you from all your calamities and your distresses; yet you have said, ‘No, but set a king over us!’ Now therefore, present yourselves before the LORD by your tribes and by your clans.” 
          20      Thus Samuel brought all the tribes of Israel near, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken by lot. 
          21      Then he brought the tribe of Benjamin near by its families, and the Matrite family was taken. And Saul the son of Kish was taken; but when they looked for him, he could not be found. 
          22      Therefore they inquired further of the LORD, “Has the man come here yet?” So the LORD said, “Behold, he is hiding himself by the baggage.” 
          23      So they ran and took him from there, and when he stood among the people, he was taller than any of the people from his shoulders upward. 
          24      Samuel said to all the people, “Do you see him whom the LORD has chosen? Surely there is no one like him among all the people.” So all the people shouted and said, “Long live the king!” 
          25      Then Samuel told the people the ordinances of the kingdom, and wrote them in the book and placed it before the LORD. And Samuel sent all the people away, each one to his house. 
          26      Saul also went to his house at Gibeah; and the valiant men whose hearts God had touched went with him. 
          27      But certain worthless men said, “How can this one deliver us?” And they despised him and did not bring him any present. But he kept silent. 




Chapter 11


Saul Defeats the Ammonites

          1      Now Nahash the Ammonite came up and besieged Jabesh-gilead; and all the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, “Make a covenant with us and we will serve you.” 
          2      But Nahash the Ammonite said to them, “I will make it with you on this condition, that I will gouge out the right eye of every one of you, thus I will make it a reproach on all Israel.” 
          3      The elders of Jabesh said to him, “Let us alone for seven days, that we may send messengers throughout the territory of Israel. Then, if there is no one to deliver us, we will come out to you.” 
          4      Then the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul and spoke these words in the hearing of the people, and all the people lifted up their voices and wept. 
          5      Now behold, Saul was coming from the field behind the oxen, and he said, “What is the matter with the people that they weep?” So they related to him the words of the men of Jabesh. 
          6      Then the Spirit of God came upon Saul mightily when he heard these words, and he became very angry. 
          7      He took a yoke of oxen and cut them in pieces, and sent them throughout the territory of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, “Whoever does not come out after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done to his oxen.” Then the dread of the LORD fell on the people, and they came out as one man. 
          8      He numbered them in Bezek; and the sons of Israel were 300,000, and the men of Judah 30,000. 
          9      They said to the messengers who had come, “Thus you shall say to the men of Jabesh-gilead, ‘Tomorrow, by the time the sun is hot, you will have deliverance.’ ” So the messengers went and told the men of Jabesh; and they were glad. 
          10      Then the men of Jabesh said, “Tomorrow we will come out to you, and you may do to us whatever seems good to you.” 
          11      The next morning Saul put the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the camp at the morning watch and struck down the Ammonites until the heat of the day. Those who survived were scattered, so that no two of them were left together. 
          12      Then the people said to Samuel, “Who is he that said, ‘Shall Saul reign over us?’ Bring the men, that we may put them to death.” 
          13      But Saul said, “Not a man shall be put to death this day, for today the LORD has accomplished deliverance in Israel.” 
          14      Then Samuel said to the people, “Come and let us go to Gilgal and renew the kingdom there.” 
          15      So all the people went to Gilgal, and there they made Saul king before the LORD in Gilgal. There they also offered sacrifices of peace offerings before the LORD; and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly. 




Chapter 12


Samuel Addresses Israel

          1      Then Samuel said to all Israel, “Behold, I have listened to your voice in all that you said to me and I have appointed a king over you. 
          2      “Now, here is the king walking before you, but I am old and gray, and behold my sons are with you. And I have walked before you from my youth even to this day. 
          3      “Here I am; bear witness against me before the LORD and His anointed. Whose ox have I taken, or whose donkey have I taken, or whom have I defrauded? Whom have I oppressed, or from whose hand have I taken a bribe to blind my eyes with it? I will restore it to you.” 
          4      They said, “You have not defrauded us or oppressed us or taken anything from any man’s hand.” 
          5      He said to them, “The LORD is witness against you, and His anointed is witness this day that you have found nothing in my hand.” And they said, “He is witness.” 
          6      Then Samuel said to the people, “It is the LORD who appointed Moses and Aaron and who brought your fathers up from the land of Egypt. 
          7      “So now, take your stand, that I may plead with you before the LORD concerning all the righteous acts of the LORD which He did for you and your fathers. 
          8      “When Jacob went into Egypt and your fathers cried out to the LORD, then the LORD sent Moses and Aaron who brought your fathers out of Egypt and settled them in this place. 
          9      “But they forgot the LORD their God, so He sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the army of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them. 
          10      “They cried out to the LORD and said, ‘We have sinned because we have forsaken the LORD and have served the Baals and the Ashtaroth; but now deliver us from the hands of our enemies, and we will serve You.’ 
          11      “Then the LORD sent Jerubbaal and Bedan and Jephthah and Samuel, and delivered you from the hands of your enemies all around, so that you lived in security. 

The King Confirmed

          12      “When you saw that Nahash the king of the sons of Ammon came against you, you said to me, ‘No, but a king shall reign over us,’ although the LORD your God was your king. 
          13      “Now therefore, here is the king whom you have chosen, whom you have asked for, and behold, the LORD has set a king over you. 
          14      “If you will fear the LORD and serve Him, and listen to His voice and not rebel against the command of the LORD, then both you and also the king who reigns over you will follow the LORD your God. 
          15      “If you will not listen to the voice of the LORD, but rebel against the command of the LORD, then the hand of the LORD will be against you, as it was against your fathers. 
          16      “Even now, take your stand and see this great thing which the LORD will do before your eyes. 
          17      “Is it not the wheat harvest today? I will call to the LORD, that He may send thunder and rain. Then you will know and see that your wickedness is great which you have done in the sight of the LORD by asking for yourselves a king.” 
          18      So Samuel called to the LORD, and the LORD sent thunder and rain that day; and all the people greatly feared the LORD and Samuel. 
          19      Then all the people said to Samuel, “Pray for your servants to the LORD your God, so that we may not die, for we have added to all our sins this evil by asking for ourselves a king.” 
          20      Samuel said to the people, “Do not fear. You have committed all this evil, yet do not turn aside from following the LORD, but serve the LORD with all your heart. 
          21      “You must not turn aside, for then you would go after futile things which can not profit or deliver, because they are futile. 
          22      “For the LORD will not abandon His people on account of His great name, because the LORD has been pleased to make you a people for Himself. 
          23      “Moreover, as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against the LORD by ceasing to pray for you; but I will instruct you in the good and right way. 
          24      “Only fear the LORD and serve Him in truth with all your heart; for consider what great things He has done for you. 
          25      “But if you still do wickedly, both you and your king will be swept away.” 




Chapter 13


War with the Philistines

          1      Saul was thirty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty two years over Israel. 
          2      Now Saul chose for himself 3,000 men of Israel, of which 2,000 were with Saul in Michmash and in the hill country of Bethel, while 1,000 were with Jonathan at Gibeah of Benjamin. But he sent away the rest of the people, each to his tent. 
          3      Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines that was in Geba, and the Philistines heard of it. Then Saul blew the trumpet throughout the land, saying, “Let the Hebrews hear.” 
          4      All Israel heard the news that Saul had smitten the garrison of the Philistines, and also that Israel had become odious to the Philistines. The people were then summoned to Saul at Gilgal. 
          5      Now the Philistines assembled to fight with Israel, 30,000 chariots and 6,000 horsemen, and people like the sand which is on the seashore in abundance; and they came up and camped in Michmash, east of Beth-aven. 
          6      When the men of Israel saw that they were in a strait (for the people were hard-pressed), then the people hid themselves in caves, in thickets, in cliffs, in cellars, and in pits. 
          7      Also some of the Hebrews crossed the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead. But as for Saul, he was still in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling. 
          8      Now he waited seven days, according to the appointed time set by Samuel, but Samuel did not come to Gilgal; and the people were scattering from him. 
          9      So Saul said, “Bring to me the burnt offering and the peace offerings.” And he offered the burnt offering. 
          10      As soon as he finished offering the burnt offering, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him and to greet him. 
          11      But Samuel said, “What have you done?” And Saul said, “Because I saw that the people were scattering from me, and that you did not come within the appointed days, and that the Philistines were assembling at Michmash, 
          12      therefore I said, ‘Now the Philistines will come down against me at Gilgal, and I have not asked the favor of the LORD.’ So I forced myself and offered the burnt offering.” 
          13      Samuel said to Saul, “You have acted foolishly; you have not kept the commandment of the LORD your God, which He commanded you, for now the LORD would have established your kingdom over Israel forever. 
          14      “But now your kingdom shall not endure. The LORD has sought out for Himself a man after His own heart, and the LORD has appointed him as ruler over His people, because you have not kept what the LORD commanded you.” 
          15      Then Samuel arose and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people who were present with him, about six hundred men. 
          16      Now Saul and his son Jonathan and the people who were present with them were staying in Geba of Benjamin while the Philistines camped at Michmash. 
          17      And the raiders came from the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned toward Ophrah, to the land of Shual, 
          18      and another company turned toward Beth-horon, and another company turned toward the border which overlooks the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness. 
          19      Now no blacksmith could be found in all the land of Israel, for the Philistines said, “Otherwise the Hebrews will make swords or spears.” 
          20      So all Israel went down to the Philistines, each to sharpen his plowshare, his mattock, his axe, and his hoe. 
          21      The charge was two-thirds of a shekel for the plowshares, the mattocks, the forks, and the axes, and to fix the hoes. 
          22      So it came about on the day of battle that neither sword nor spear was found in the hands of any of the people who were with Saul and Jonathan, but they were found with Saul and his son Jonathan. 
          23      And the garrison of the Philistines went out to the pass of Michmash. 




Chapter 14


Jonathan’s Victory

          1      Now the day came that Jonathan, the son of Saul, said to the young man who was carrying his armor, “Come and let us cross over to the Philistines’ garrison that is on the other side.” But he did not tell his father. 
          2      Saul was staying in the outskirts of Gibeah under the pomegranate tree which is in Migron. And the people who were with him were about six hundred men, 
          3      and Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, Ichabod’s brother, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the priest of the LORD at Shiloh, was wearing an ephod. And the people did not know that Jonathan had gone. 
          4      Between the passes by which Jonathan sought to cross over to the Philistines’ garrison, there was a sharp crag on the one side and a sharp crag on the other side, and the name of the one was Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh. 
          5      The one crag rose on the north opposite Michmash, and the other on the south opposite Geba. 
          6      Then Jonathan said to the young man who was carrying his armor, “Come and let us cross over to the garrison of these uncircumcised; perhaps the LORD will work for us, for the LORD is not restrained to save by many or by few.” 
          7      His armor bearer said to him, “Do all that is in your heart; turn yourself, and here I am with you according to your desire.” 
          8      Then Jonathan said, “Behold, we will cross over to the men and reveal ourselves to them. 
          9      “If they say to us, ‘Wait until we come to you’; then we will stand in our place and not go up to them. 
          10      “But if they say, ‘Come up to us,’ then we will go up, for the LORD has given them into our hands; and this shall be the sign to us.” 
          11      When both of them revealed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines, the Philistines said, “Behold, Hebrews are coming out of the holes where they have hidden themselves.” 
          12      So the men of the garrison hailed Jonathan and his armor bearer and said, “Come up to us and we will tell you something.” And Jonathan said to his armor bearer, “Come up after me, for the LORD has given them into the hands of Israel.” 
          13      Then Jonathan climbed up on his hands and feet, with his armor bearer behind him; and they fell before Jonathan, and his armor bearer put some to death after him. 
          14      That first slaughter which Jonathan and his armor bearer made was about twenty men within about half a furrow in an acre of land. 
          15      And there was a trembling in the camp, in the field, and among all the people. Even the garrison and the raiders trembled, and the earth quaked so that it became a great trembling. 
          16      Now Saul’s watchmen in Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and behold, the multitude melted away; and they went here and there. 
          17      Saul said to the people who were with him, “Number now and see who has gone from us.” And when they had numbered, behold, Jonathan and his armor bearer were not there. 
          18      Then Saul said to Ahijah, “Bring the ark of God here.” For the ark of God was at that time with the sons of Israel. 
          19      While Saul talked to the priest, the commotion in the camp of the Philistines continued and increased; so Saul said to the priest, “Withdraw your hand.” 
          20      Then Saul and all the people who were with him rallied and came to the battle; and behold, every man’s sword was against his fellow, and there was very great confusion. 
          21      Now the Hebrews who were with the Philistines previously, who went up with them all around in the camp, even they also turned to be with the Israelites who were with Saul and Jonathan. 
          22      When all the men of Israel who had hidden themselves in the hill country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines had fled, even they also pursued them closely in the battle. 
          23      So the LORD delivered Israel that day, and the battle spread beyond Beth-aven. 

Saul’s Foolish Order

          24      Now the men of Israel were hard-pressed on that day, for Saul had put the people under oath, saying, “Cursed be the man who eats food before evening, and until I have avenged myself on my enemies.” So none of the people tasted food. 
          25      All the people of the land entered the forest, and there was honey on the ground. 
          26      When the people entered the forest, behold, there was a flow of honey; but no man put his hand to his mouth, for the people feared the oath. 
          27      But Jonathan had not heard when his father put the people under oath; therefore, he put out the end of the staff that was in his hand and dipped it in the honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes brightened. 
          28      Then one of the people said, “Your father strictly put the people under oath, saying, ‘Cursed be the man who eats food today.’ ” And the people were weary. 
          29      Then Jonathan said, “My father has troubled the land. See now, how my eyes have brightened because I tasted a little of this honey. 
          30      “How much more, if only the people had eaten freely today of the spoil of their enemies which they found! For now the slaughter among the Philistines has not been great.” 
          31      They struck among the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon. And the people were very weary. 
          32      The people rushed greedily upon the spoil, and took sheep and oxen and calves, and slew them on the ground; and the people ate them with the blood. 
          33      Then they told Saul, saying, “Behold, the people are sinning against the LORD by eating with the blood.” And he said, “You have acted treacherously; roll a great stone to me today.” 
          34      Saul said, “Disperse yourselves among the people and say to them, ‘Each one of you bring me his ox or his sheep, and slaughter it here and eat; and do not sin against the LORD by eating with the blood.’ ” So all the people that night brought each one his ox with him and slaughtered it there. 
          35      And Saul built an altar to the LORD; it was the first altar that he built to the LORD. 
          36      Then Saul said, “Let us go down after the Philistines by night and take spoil among them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them.” And they said, “Do whatever seems good to you.” So the priest said, “Let us draw near to God here.” 
          37      Saul inquired of God, “Shall I go down after the Philistines? Will You give them into the hand of Israel?” But He did not answer him on that day. 
          38      Saul said, “Draw near here, all you chiefs of the people, and investigate and see how this sin has happened today. 
          39      “For as the LORD lives, who delivers Israel, though it is in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die.” But not one of all the people answered him. 
          40      Then he said to all Israel, “You shall be on one side and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side.” And the people said to Saul, “Do what seems good to you.” 
          41      Therefore, Saul said to the LORD, the God of Israel, “Give a perfect lot.” And Jonathan and Saul were taken, but the people escaped. 
          42      Saul said, “Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son.” And Jonathan was taken. 
          43      Then Saul said to Jonathan, “Tell me what you have done.” So Jonathan told him and said, “I indeed tasted a little honey with the end of the staff that was in my hand. Here I am, I must die!” 
          44      Saul said, “May God do this to me and more also, for you shall surely die, Jonathan.” 
          45      But the people said to Saul, “Must Jonathan die, who has brought about this great deliverance in Israel? Far from it! As the LORD lives, not one hair of his head shall fall to the ground, for he has worked with God this day.” So the people rescued Jonathan and he did not die. 
          46      Then Saul went up from pursuing the Philistines, and the Philistines went to their own place. 

Constant Warfare

          47      Now when Saul had taken the kingdom over Israel, he fought against all his enemies on every side, against Moab, the sons of Ammon, Edom, the kings of Zobah, and the Philistines; and wherever he turned, he inflicted punishment. 
          48      He acted valiantly and defeated the Amalekites, and delivered Israel from the hands of those who plundered them. 
          49      Now the sons of Saul were Jonathan and Ishvi and Malchi-shua; and the names of his two daughters were these: the name of the firstborn Merab and the name of the younger Michal. 
          50      The name of Saul’s wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz. And the name of the captain of his army was Abner the son of Ner, Saul’s uncle. 
          51      Kish was the father of Saul, and Ner the father of Abner was the son of Abiel. 
          52      Now the war against the Philistines was severe all the days of Saul; and when Saul saw any mighty man or any valiant man, he attached him to his staff. 




Chapter 15


Saul’s Disobedience

          1      Then Samuel said to Saul, “The LORD sent me to anoint you as king over His people, over Israel; now therefore, listen to the words of the LORD. 
          2      “Thus says the LORD of hosts, ‘I will punish Amalek for what he did to Israel, how he set himself against him on the way while he was coming up from Egypt. 
          3      ‘Now go and strike Amalek and utterly destroy all that he has, and do not spare him; but put to death both man and woman, child and infant, ox and sheep, camel and donkey.’ ” 
          4      Then Saul summoned the people and numbered them in Telaim, 200,000 foot soldiers and 10,000 men of Judah. 
          5      Saul came to the city of Amalek and set an ambush in the valley. 
          6      Saul said to the Kenites, “Go, depart, go down from among the Amalekites, so that I do not destroy you with them; for you showed kindness to all the sons of Israel when they came up from Egypt.” So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites. 
          7      So Saul defeated the Amalekites, from Havilah as you go to Shur, which is east of Egypt. 
          8      He captured Agag the king of the Amalekites alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword. 
          9      But Saul and the people spared Agag and the best of the sheep, the oxen, the fatlings, the lambs, and all that was good, and were not willing to destroy them utterly; but everything despised and worthless, that they utterly destroyed. 

Samuel Rebukes Saul

          10      Then the word of the LORD came to Samuel, saying, 
          11      “I regret that I have made Saul king, for he has turned back from following Me and has not carried out My commands.” And Samuel was distressed and cried out to the LORD all night. 
          12      Samuel rose early in the morning to meet Saul; and it was told Samuel, saying, “Saul came to Carmel, and behold, he set up a monument for himself, then turned and proceeded on down to Gilgal.” 
          13      Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said to him, “Blessed are you of the LORD! I have carried out the command of the LORD.” 
          14      But Samuel said, “What then is this bleating of the sheep in my ears, and the lowing of the oxen which I hear?” 
          15      Saul said, “They have brought them from the Amalekites, for the people spared the best of the sheep and oxen, to sacrifice to the LORD your God; but the rest we have utterly destroyed.” 
          16      Then Samuel said to Saul, “Wait, and let me tell you what the LORD said to me last night.” And he said to him, “Speak!” 
          17      Samuel said, “Is it not true, though you were little in your own eyes, you were made the head of the tribes of Israel? And the LORD anointed you king over Israel, 
          18      and the LORD sent you on a mission, and said, ‘Go and utterly destroy the sinners, the Amalekites, and fight against them until they are exterminated.’ 
          19      “Why then did you not obey the voice of the LORD, but rushed upon the spoil and did what was evil in the sight of the LORD?” 
          20      Then Saul said to Samuel, “I did obey the voice of the LORD, and went on the mission on which the LORD sent me, and have brought back Agag the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites. 
          21      “But the people took some of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the choicest of the things devoted to destruction, to sacrifice to the LORD your God at Gilgal.” 
          22      Samuel said, 
         “Has the LORD as much delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices 
         As in obeying the voice of the LORD? 
         Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, 
         And to heed than the fat of rams. 
               23      “For rebellion is as the sin of divination, 
         And insubordination is as iniquity and idolatry. 
         Because you have rejected the word of the LORD, 
         He has also rejected you from being king.” 
          24      Then Saul said to Samuel, “I have sinned; I have indeed transgressed the command of the LORD and your words, because I feared the people and listened to their voice. 
          25      “Now therefore, please pardon my sin and return with me, that I may worship the LORD.” 
          26      But Samuel said to Saul, “I will not return with you; for you have rejected the word of the LORD, and the LORD has rejected you from being king over Israel.” 
          27      As Samuel turned to go, Saul seized the edge of his robe, and it tore. 
          28      So Samuel said to him, “The LORD has torn the kingdom of Israel from you today and has given it to your neighbor, who is better than you. 
          29      “Also the Glory of Israel will not lie or change His mind; for He is not a man that He should change His mind.” 
          30      Then he said, “I have sinned; but please honor me now before the elders of my people and before Israel, and go back with me, that I may worship the LORD your God.” 
          31      So Samuel went back following Saul, and Saul worshiped the LORD. 
          32      Then Samuel said, “Bring me Agag, the king of the Amalekites.” And Agag came to him cheerfully. And Agag said, “Surely the bitterness of death is past.” 
          33      But Samuel said, “As your sword has made women childless, so shall your mother be childless among women.” And Samuel hewed Agag to pieces before the LORD at Gilgal. 
          34      Then Samuel went to Ramah, but Saul went up to his house at Gibeah of Saul. 
          35      Samuel did not see Saul again until the day of his death; for Samuel grieved over Saul. And the LORD regretted that He had made Saul king over Israel. 




Chapter 16


Samuel Goes to Bethlehem

          1      Now the LORD said to Samuel, “How long will you grieve over Saul, since I have rejected him from being king over Israel? Fill your horn with oil and go; I will send you to Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I have selected a king for Myself among his sons.” 
          2      But Samuel said, “How can I go? When Saul hears of it, he will kill me.” And the LORD said, “Take a heifer with you and say, ‘I have come to sacrifice to the LORD.’ 
          3      “You shall invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what you shall do; and you shall anoint for Me the one whom I designate to you.” 
          4      So Samuel did what the LORD said, and came to Bethlehem. And the elders of the city came trembling to meet him and said, “Do you come in peace?” 
          5      He said, “In peace; I have come to sacrifice to the LORD. Consecrate yourselves and come with me to the sacrifice.” He also consecrated Jesse and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice. 
          6      When they entered, he looked at Eliab and thought, “Surely the LORD’S anointed is before Him.” 
          7      But the LORD said to Samuel, “Do not look at his appearance or at the height of his stature, because I have rejected him; for God sees not as man sees, for man looks at the outward appearance, but the LORD looks at the heart.” 
          8      Then Jesse called Abinadab and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, “The LORD has not chosen this one either.” 
          9      Next Jesse made Shammah pass by. And he said, “The LORD has not chosen this one either.” 
          10      Thus Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel. But Samuel said to Jesse, “The LORD has not chosen these.” 
          11      And Samuel said to Jesse, “Are these all the children?” And he said, “There remains yet the youngest, and behold, he is tending the sheep.” Then Samuel said to Jesse, “Send and bring him; for we will not sit down until he comes here.” 

David Anointed

          12      So he sent and brought him in. Now he was ruddy, with beautiful eyes and a handsome appearance. And the LORD said, “Arise, anoint him; for this is he.” 
          13      Then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brothers; and the Spirit of the LORD came mightily upon David from that day forward. And Samuel arose and went to Ramah. 
          14      Now the Spirit of the LORD departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the LORD terrorized him. 
          15      Saul’s servants then said to him, “Behold now, an evil spirit from God is terrorizing you. 
          16      “Let our lord now command your servants who are before you. Let them seek a man who is a skillful player on the harp; and it shall come about when the evil spirit from God is on you, that he shall play the harp with his hand, and you will be well.” 
          17      So Saul said to his servants, “Provide for me now a man who can play well and bring him to me.” 
          18      Then one of the young men said, “Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite who is a skillful musician, a mighty man of valor, a warrior, one prudent in speech, and a handsome man; and the LORD is with him.” 
          19      So Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, “Send me your son David who is with the flock.” 
          20      Jesse took a donkey loaded with bread and a jug of wine and a young goat, and sent them to Saul by David his son. 
          21      Then David came to Saul and attended him; and Saul loved him greatly, and he became his armor bearer. 
          22      Saul sent to Jesse, saying, “Let David now stand before me, for he has found favor in my sight.” 
          23      So it came about whenever the evil spirit from God came to Saul, David would take the harp and play it with his hand; and Saul would be refreshed and be well, and the evil spirit would depart from him. 




Chapter 17


Goliath’s Challenge

          1      Now the Philistines gathered their armies for battle; and they were gathered at Socoh which belongs to Judah, and they camped between Socoh and Azekah, in Ephes-dammim. 
          2      Saul and the men of Israel were gathered and camped in the valley of Elah, and drew up in battle array to encounter the Philistines. 
          3      The Philistines stood on the mountain on one side while Israel stood on the mountain on the other side, with the valley between them. 
          4      Then a champion came out from the armies of the Philistines named Goliath, from Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span. 
          5      He had a bronze helmet on his head, and he was clothed with scale-armor which weighed five thousand shekels of bronze. 
          6      He also had bronze greaves on his legs and a bronze javelin slung between his shoulders. 
          7      The shaft of his spear was like a weaver’s beam, and the head of his spear weighed six hundred shekels of iron; his shield-carrier also walked before him. 
          8      He stood and shouted to the ranks of Israel and said to them, “Why do you come out to draw up in battle array? Am I not the Philistine and you servants of Saul? Choose a man for yourselves and let him come down to me. 
          9      “If he is able to fight with me and kill me, then we will become your servants; but if I prevail against him and kill him, then you shall become our servants and serve us.” 
          10      Again the Philistine said, “I defy the ranks of Israel this day; give me a man that we may fight together.” 
          11      When Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistine, they were dismayed and greatly afraid. 
          12      Now David was the son of the Ephrathite of Bethlehem in Judah, whose name was Jesse, and he had eight sons. And Jesse was old in the days of Saul, advanced in years among men. 
          13      The three older sons of Jesse had gone after Saul to the battle. And the names of his three sons who went to the battle were Eliab the firstborn, and the second to him Abinadab, and the third Shammah. 
          14      David was the youngest. Now the three oldest followed Saul, 
          15      but David went back and forth from Saul to tend his father’s flock at Bethlehem. 
          16      The Philistine came forward morning and evening for forty days and took his stand. 
          17      Then Jesse said to David his son, “Take now for your brothers an ephah of this roasted grain and these ten loaves and run to the camp to your brothers. 
          18      “Bring also these ten cuts of cheese to the commander of their thousand, and look into the welfare of your brothers, and bring back news of them. 
          19      “For Saul and they and all the men of Israel are in the valley of Elah, fighting with the Philistines.” 

David Accepts the Challenge

          20      So David arose early in the morning and left the flock with a keeper and took the supplies and went as Jesse had commanded him. And he came to the circle of the camp while the army was going out in battle array shouting the war cry. 
          21      Israel and the Philistines drew up in battle array, army against army. 
          22      Then David left his baggage in the care of the baggage keeper, and ran to the battle line and entered in order to greet his brothers. 
          23      As he was talking with them, behold, the champion, the Philistine from Gath named Goliath, was coming up from the army of the Philistines, and he spoke these same words; and David heard them. 
          24      When all the men of Israel saw the man, they fled from him and were greatly afraid. 
          25      The men of Israel said, “Have you seen this man who is coming up? Surely he is coming up to defy Israel. And it will be that the king will enrich the man who kills him with great riches and will give him his daughter and make his father’s house free in Israel.” 
          26      Then David spoke to the men who were standing by him, saying, “What will be done for the man who kills this Philistine and takes away the reproach from Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should taunt the armies of the living God?” 
          27      The people answered him in accord with this word, saying, “Thus it will be done for the man who kills him.” 
          28      Now Eliab his oldest brother heard when he spoke to the men; and Eliab’s anger burned against David and he said, “Why have you come down? And with whom have you left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know your insolence and the wickedness of your heart; for you have come down in order to see the battle.” 
          29      But David said, “What have I done now? Was it not just a question?” 
          30      Then he turned away from him to another and said the same thing; and the people answered the same thing as before. 

David Kills Goliath

          31      When the words which David spoke were heard, they told them to Saul, and he sent for him. 
          32      David said to Saul, “Let no man’s heart fail on account of him; your servant will go and fight with this Philistine.” 
          33      Then Saul said to David, “You are not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him; for you are but a youth while he has been a warrior from his youth.” 
          34      But David said to Saul, “Your servant was tending his father’s sheep. When a lion or a bear came and took a lamb from the flock, 
          35      I went out after him and attacked him, and rescued it from his mouth; and when he rose up against me, I seized him by his beard and struck him and killed him. 
          36      “Your servant has killed both the lion and the bear; and this uncircumcised Philistine will be like one of them, since he has taunted the armies of the living God.” 
          37      And David said, “The LORD who delivered me from the paw of the lion and from the paw of the bear, He will deliver me from the hand of this Philistine.” And Saul said to David, “Go, and may the LORD be with you.” 
          38      Then Saul clothed David with his garments and put a bronze helmet on his head, and he clothed him with armor. 
          39      David girded his sword over his armor and tried to walk, for he had not tested them. So David said to Saul, “I cannot go with these, for I have not tested them.” And David took them off. 
          40      He took his stick in his hand and chose for himself five smooth stones from the brook, and put them in the shepherd’s bag which he had, even in his pouch, and his sling was in his hand; and he approached the Philistine. 
          41      Then the Philistine came on and approached David, with the shield-bearer in front of him. 
          42      When the Philistine looked and saw David, he disdained him; for he was but a youth, and ruddy, with a handsome appearance. 
          43      The Philistine said to David, “Am I a dog, that you come to me with sticks?” And the Philistine cursed David by his gods. 
          44      The Philistine also said to David, “Come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of the sky and the beasts of the field.” 
          45      Then David said to the Philistine, “You come to me with a sword, a spear, and a javelin, but I come to you in the name of the LORD of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have taunted. 
          46      “This day the LORD will deliver you up into my hands, and I will strike you down and remove your head from you. And I will give the dead bodies of the army of the Philistines this day to the birds of the sky and the wild beasts of the earth, that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel, 
          47      and that all this assembly may know that the LORD does not deliver by sword or by spear; for the battle is the LORD’S and He will give you into our hands.” 
          48      Then it happened when the Philistine rose and came and drew near to meet David, that David ran quickly toward the battle line to meet the Philistine. 
          49      And David put his hand into his bag and took from it a stone and slung it, and struck the Philistine on his forehead. And the stone sank into his forehead, so that he fell on his face to the ground. 
          50      Thus David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and a stone, and he struck the Philistine and killed him; but there was no sword in David’s hand. 
          51      Then David ran and stood over the Philistine and took his sword and drew it out of its sheath and killed him, and cut off his head with it. When the Philistines saw that their champion was dead, they fled. 
          52      The men of Israel and Judah arose and shouted and pursued the Philistines as far as the valley, and to the gates of Ekron. And the slain Philistines lay along the way to Shaaraim, even to Gath and Ekron. 
          53      The sons of Israel returned from chasing the Philistines and plundered their camps. 
          54      Then David took the Philistine’s head and brought it to Jerusalem, but he put his weapons in his tent. 
          55      Now when Saul saw David going out against the Philistine, he said to Abner the commander of the army, “Abner, whose son is this young man?” And Abner said, “By your life, O king, I do not know.” 
          56      The king said, “You inquire whose son the youth is.” 
          57      So when David returned from killing the Philistine, Abner took him and brought him before Saul with the Philistine’s head in his hand. 
          58      Saul said to him, “Whose son are you, young man?” And David answered, “I am the son of your servant Jesse the Bethlehemite.” 




Chapter 18


Jonathan and David

          1      Now it came about when he had finished speaking to Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as himself. 
          2      Saul took him that day and did not let him return to his father’s house. 
          3      Then Jonathan made a covenant with David because he loved him as himself. 
          4      Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was on him and gave it to David, with his armor, including his sword and his bow and his belt. 
          5      So David went out wherever Saul sent him, and prospered; and Saul set him over the men of war. And it was pleasing in the sight of all the people and also in the sight of Saul’s servants. 
          6      It happened as they were coming, when David returned from killing the Philistine, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet King Saul, with tambourines, with joy and with musical instruments. 
          7      The women sang as they played, and said, 
         “Saul has slain his thousands, 
         And David his ten thousands.” 
          8      Then Saul became very angry, for this saying displeased him; and he said, “They have ascribed to David ten thousands, but to me they have ascribed thousands. Now what more can he have but the kingdom?” 
          9      Saul looked at David with suspicion from that day on. 

Saul Turns against David

          10      Now it came about on the next day that an evil spirit from God came mightily upon Saul, and he raved in the midst of the house, while David was playing the harp with his hand, as usual; and a spear was in Saul’s hand. 
          11      Saul hurled the spear for he thought, “I will pin David to the wall.” But David escaped from his presence twice. 
          12      Now Saul was afraid of David, for the LORD was with him but had departed from Saul. 
          13      Therefore Saul removed him from his presence and appointed him as his commander of a thousand; and he went out and came in before the people. 
          14      David was prospering in all his ways for the LORD was with him. 
          15      When Saul saw that he was prospering greatly, he dreaded him. 
          16      But all Israel and Judah loved David, and he went out and came in before them. 
          17      Then Saul said to David, “Here is my older daughter Merab; I will give her to you as a wife, only be a valiant man for me and fight the LORD’S battles.” For Saul thought, “My hand shall not be against him, but let the hand of the Philistines be against him.” 
          18      But David said to Saul, “Who am I, and what is my life or my father’s family in Israel, that I should be the king’s son-in-law?” 
          19      So it came about at the time when Merab, Saul’s daughter, should have been given to David, that she was given to Adriel the Meholathite for a wife. 

David Marries Saul’s Daughter

          20      Now Michal, Saul’s daughter, loved David. When they told Saul, the thing was agreeable to him. 
          21      Saul thought, “I will give her to him that she may become a snare to him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him.” Therefore Saul said to David, “For a second time you may be my son-in-law today.” 
          22      Then Saul commanded his servants, “Speak to David secretly, saying, ‘Behold, the king delights in you, and all his servants love you; now therefore, become the king’s son-in-law.’ ” 
          23      So Saul’s servants spoke these words to David. But David said, “Is it trivial in your sight to become the king’s son-in-law, since I am a poor man and lightly esteemed?” 
          24      The servants of Saul reported to him according to these words which David spoke. 
          25      Saul then said, “Thus you shall say to David, ‘The king does not desire any dowry except a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to take vengeance on the king’s enemies.’ ” Now Saul planned to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines. 
          26      When his servants told David these words, it pleased David to become the king’s son-in-law. Before the days had expired 
          27      David rose up and went, he and his men, and struck down two hundred men among the Philistines. Then David brought their foreskins, and they gave them in full number to the king, that he might become the king’s son-in-law. So Saul gave him Michal his daughter for a wife. 
          28      When Saul saw and knew that the LORD was with David, and that Michal, Saul’s daughter, loved him, 
          29      then Saul was even more afraid of David. Thus Saul was David’s enemy continually. 
          30      Then the commanders of the Philistines went out to battle, and it happened as often as they went out, that David behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul. So his name was highly esteemed. 




Chapter 19


David Protected from Saul

          1      Now Saul told Jonathan his son and all his servants to put David to death. But Jonathan, Saul’s son, greatly delighted in David. 
          2      So Jonathan told David saying, “Saul my father is seeking to put you to death. Now therefore, please be on guard in the morning, and stay in a secret place and hide yourself. 
          3      “I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where you are, and I will speak with my father about you; if I find out anything, then I will tell you.” 
          4      Then Jonathan spoke well of David to Saul his father and said to him, “Do not let the king sin against his servant David, since he has not sinned against you, and since his deeds have been very beneficial to you. 
          5      “For he took his life in his hand and struck the Philistine, and the LORD brought about a great deliverance for all Israel; you saw it and rejoiced. Why then will you sin against innocent blood by putting David to death without a cause?” 
          6      Saul listened to the voice of Jonathan, and Saul vowed, “As the LORD lives, he shall not be put to death.” 
          7      Then Jonathan called David, and Jonathan told him all these words. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence as formerly. 
          8      When there was war again, David went out and fought with the Philistines and defeated them with great slaughter, so that they fled before him. 
          9      Now there was an evil spirit from the LORD on Saul as he was sitting in his house with his spear in his hand, and David was playing the harp with his hand. 
          10      Saul tried to pin David to the wall with the spear, but he slipped away out of Saul’s presence, so that he stuck the spear into the wall. And David fled and escaped that night. 
          11      Then Saul sent messengers to David’s house to watch him, in order to put him to death in the morning. But Michal, David’s wife, told him, saying, “If you do not save your life tonight, tomorrow you will be put to death.” 
          12      So Michal let David down through a window, and he went out and fled and escaped. 
          13      Michal took the household idol and laid it on the bed, and put a quilt of goats’ hair at its head, and covered it with clothes. 
          14      When Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, “He is sick.” 
          15      Then Saul sent messengers to see David, saying, “Bring him up to me on his bed, that I may put him to death.” 
          16      When the messengers entered, behold, the household idol was on the bed with the quilt of goats’ hair at its head. 
          17      So Saul said to Michal, “Why have you deceived me like this and let my enemy go, so that he has escaped?” And Michal said to Saul, “He said to me, ‘Let me go! Why should I put you to death?’ ” 
          18      Now David fled and escaped and came to Samuel at Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and stayed in Naioth. 
          19      It was told Saul, saying, “Behold, David is at Naioth in Ramah.” 
          20      Then Saul sent messengers to take David, but when they saw the company of the prophets prophesying, with Samuel standing and presiding over them, the Spirit of God came upon the messengers of Saul; and they also prophesied. 
          21      When it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied. So Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they also prophesied. 
          22      Then he himself went to Ramah and came as far as the large well that is in Secu; and he asked and said, “Where are Samuel and David?” And someone said, “Behold, they are at Naioth in Ramah.” 
          23      He proceeded there to Naioth in Ramah; and the Spirit of God came upon him also, so that he went along prophesying continually until he came to Naioth in Ramah. 
          24      He also stripped off his clothes, and he too prophesied before Samuel and lay down naked all that day and all that night. Therefore they say, “Is Saul also among the prophets?” 




Chapter 20


David and Jonathan Covenant

          1      Then David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came and said to Jonathan, “What have I done? What is my iniquity? And what is my sin before your father, that he is seeking my life?” 
          2      He said to him, “Far from it, you shall not die. Behold, my father does nothing either great or small without disclosing it to me. So why should my father hide this thing from me? It is not so!” 
          3      Yet David vowed again, saying, “Your father knows well that I have found favor in your sight, and he has said, ‘Do not let Jonathan know this, or he will be grieved.’ But truly as the LORD lives and as your soul lives, there is hardly a step between me and death.” 
          4      Then Jonathan said to David, “Whatever you say, I will do for you.” 
          5      So David said to Jonathan, “Behold, tomorrow is the new moon, and I ought to sit down to eat with the king. But let me go, that I may hide myself in the field until the third evening. 
          6      “If your father misses me at all, then say, ‘David earnestly asked leave of me to run to Bethlehem his city, because it is the yearly sacrifice there for the whole family.’ 
          7      “If he says, ‘It is good,’ your servant will be safe; but if he is very angry, know that he has decided on evil. 
          8      “Therefore deal kindly with your servant, for you have brought your servant into a covenant of the LORD with you. But if there is iniquity in me, put me to death yourself; for why then should you bring me to your father?” 
          9      Jonathan said, “Far be it from you! For if I should indeed learn that evil has been decided by my father to come upon you, then would I not tell you about it?” 
          10      Then David said to Jonathan, “Who will tell me if your father answers you harshly?” 
          11      Jonathan said to David, “Come, and let us go out into the field.” So both of them went out to the field. 
          12      Then Jonathan said to David, “The LORD, the God of Israel, be witness! When I have sounded out my father about this time tomorrow, or the third day, behold, if there is good feeling toward David, shall I not then send to you and make it known to you? 
          13      “If it please my father to do you harm, may the LORD do so to Jonathan and more also, if I do not make it known to you and send you away, that you may go in safety. And may the LORD be with you as He has been with my father. 
          14      “If I am still alive, will you not show me the lovingkindness of the LORD, that I may not die? 
          15      “You shall not cut off your lovingkindness from my house forever, not even when the LORD cuts off every one of the enemies of David from the face of the earth.” 
          16      So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, “May the LORD require it at the hands of David’s enemies.” 
          17      Jonathan made David vow again because of his love for him, because he loved him as he loved his own life. 
          18      Then Jonathan said to him, “Tomorrow is the new moon, and you will be missed because your seat will be empty. 
          19      “When you have stayed for three days, you shall go down quickly and come to the place where you hid yourself on that eventful day, and you shall remain by the stone Ezel. 
          20      “I will shoot three arrows to the side, as though I shot at a target. 
          21      “And behold, I will send the lad, saying, ‘Go, find the arrows.’ If I specifically say to the lad, ‘Behold, the arrows are on this side of you, get them,’ then come; for there is safety for you and no harm, as the LORD lives. 
          22      “But if I say to the youth, ‘Behold, the arrows are beyond you,’ go, for the LORD has sent you away. 
          23      “As for the agreement of which you and I have spoken, behold, the LORD is between you and me forever.” 
          24      So David hid in the field; and when the new moon came, the king sat down to eat food. 
          25      The king sat on his seat as usual, the seat by the wall; then Jonathan rose up and Abner sat down by Saul’s side, but David’s place was empty. 
          26      Nevertheless Saul did not speak anything that day, for he thought, “It is an accident, he is not clean, surely he is not clean.” 
          27      It came about the next day, the second day of the new moon, that David’s place was empty; so Saul said to Jonathan his son, “Why has the son of Jesse not come to the meal, either yesterday or today?” 
          28      Jonathan then answered Saul, “David earnestly asked leave of me to go to Bethlehem, 
          29      for he said, ‘Please let me go, since our family has a sacrifice in the city, and my brother has commanded me to attend. And now, if I have found favor in your sight, please let me get away that I may see my brothers.’ For this reason he has not come to the king’s table.” 

Saul Is Angry with Jonathan

          30      Then Saul’s anger burned against Jonathan and he said to him, “You son of a perverse, rebellious woman! Do I not know that you are choosing the son of Jesse to your own shame and to the shame of your mother’s nakedness? 
          31      “For as long as the son of Jesse lives on the earth, neither you nor your kingdom will be established. Therefore now, send and bring him to me, for he must surely die.” 
          32      But Jonathan answered Saul his father and said to him, “Why should he be put to death? What has he done?” 
          33      Then Saul hurled his spear at him to strike him down; so Jonathan knew that his father had decided to put David to death. 
          34      Then Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and did not eat food on the second day of the new moon, for he was grieved over David because his father had dishonored him. 
          35      Now it came about in the morning that Jonathan went out into the field for the appointment with David, and a little lad was with him. 
          36      He said to his lad, “Run, find now the arrows which I am about to shoot.” As the lad was running, he shot an arrow past him. 
          37      When the lad reached the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan called after the lad and said, “Is not the arrow beyond you?” 
          38      And Jonathan called after the lad, “Hurry, be quick, do not stay!” And Jonathan’s lad picked up the arrow and came to his master. 
          39      But the lad was not aware of anything; only Jonathan and David knew about the matter. 
          40      Then Jonathan gave his weapons to his lad and said to him, “Go, bring them to the city.” 
          41      When the lad was gone, David rose from the south side and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed three times. And they kissed each other and wept together, but David wept the more. 
          42      Jonathan said to David, “Go in safety, inasmuch as we have sworn to each other in the name of the LORD, saying, ‘The LORD will be between me and you, and between my descendants and your descendants forever.’ ” Then he rose and departed, while Jonathan went into the city. 




Chapter 21


David Takes Consecrated Bread

          1      Then David came to Nob to Ahimelech the priest; and Ahimelech came trembling to meet David and said to him, “Why are you alone and no one with you?” 
          2      David said to Ahimelech the priest, “The king has commissioned me with a matter and has said to me, ‘Let no one know anything about the matter on which I am sending you and with which I have commissioned you; and I have directed the young men to a certain place.’ 
          3      “Now therefore, what do you have on hand? Give me five loaves of bread, or whatever can be found.” 
          4      The priest answered David and said, “There is no ordinary bread on hand, but there is consecrated bread; if only the young men have kept themselves from women.” 
          5      David answered the priest and said to him, “Surely women have been kept from us as previously when I set out and the vessels of the young men were holy, though it was an ordinary journey; how much more then today will their vessels be holy?” 
          6      So the priest gave him consecrated bread; for there was no bread there but the bread of the Presence which was removed from before the LORD, in order to put hot bread in its place when it was taken away. 
          7      Now one of the servants of Saul was there that day, detained before the LORD; and his name was Doeg the Edomite, the chief of Saul’s shepherds. 
          8      David said to Ahimelech, “Now is there not a spear or a sword on hand? For I brought neither my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king’s matter was urgent.” 
          9      Then the priest said, “The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom you killed in the valley of Elah, behold, it is wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod; if you would take it for yourself, take it. For there is no other except it here.” And David said, “There is none like it; give it to me.” 
          10      Then David arose and fled that day from Saul, and went to Achish king of Gath. 
          11      But the servants of Achish said to him, “Is this not David the king of the land? Did they not sing of this one as they danced, saying, 
         ‘Saul has slain his thousands, 
         And David his ten thousands’?” 
          12      David took these words to heart and greatly feared Achish king of Gath. 
          13      So he disguised his sanity before them, and acted insanely in their hands, and scribbled on the doors of the gate, and let his saliva run down into his beard. 
          14      Then Achish said to his servants, “Behold, you see the man behaving as a madman. Why do you bring him to me? 
          15      “Do I lack madmen, that you have brought this one to act the madman in my presence? Shall this one come into my house?” 




Chapter 22


The Priests Slain at Nob

          1      So David departed from there and escaped to the cave of Adullam; and when his brothers and all his father’s household heard of it, they went down there to him. 
          2      Everyone who was in distress, and everyone who was in debt, and everyone who was discontented gathered to him; and he became captain over them. Now there were about four hundred men with him. 
          3      And David went from there to Mizpah of Moab; and he said to the king of Moab, “Please let my father and my mother come and stay with you until I know what God will do for me.” 
          4      Then he left them with the king of Moab; and they stayed with him all the time that David was in the stronghold. 
          5      The prophet Gad said to David, “Do not stay in the stronghold; depart, and go into the land of Judah.” So David departed and went into the forest of Hereth. 
          6      Then Saul heard that David and the men who were with him had been discovered. Now Saul was sitting in Gibeah, under the tamarisk tree on the height with his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing around him. 
          7      Saul said to his servants who stood around him, “Hear now, O Benjamites! Will the son of Jesse also give to all of you fields and vineyards? Will he make you all commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds? 
          8      “For all of you have conspired against me so that there is no one who discloses to me when my son makes a covenant with the son of Jesse, and there is none of you who is sorry for me or discloses to me that my son has stirred up my servant against me to lie in ambush, as it is this day.” 
          9      Then Doeg the Edomite, who was standing by the servants of Saul, said, “I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub. 
          10      “He inquired of the LORD for him, gave him provisions, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.” 
          11      Then the king sent someone to summon Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father’s household, the priests who were in Nob; and all of them came to the king. 
          12      Saul said, “Listen now, son of Ahitub.” And he answered, “Here I am, my lord.” 
          13      Saul then said to him, “Why have you and the son of Jesse conspired against me, in that you have given him bread and a sword and have inquired of God for him, so that he would rise up against me by lying in ambush as it is this day?” 
          14      Then Ahimelech answered the king and said, “And who among all your servants is as faithful as David, even the king’s son-in-law, who is captain over your guard, and is honored in your house? 
          15      “Did I just begin to inquire of God for him today? Far be it from me! Do not let the king impute anything to his servant or to any of the household of my father, for your servant knows nothing at all of this whole affair.” 
          16      But the king said, “You shall surely die, Ahimelech, you and all your father’s household!” 
          17      And the king said to the guards who were attending him, “Turn around and put the priests of the LORD to death, because their hand also is with David and because they knew that he was fleeing and did not reveal it to me.” But the servants of the king were not willing to put forth their hands to attack the priests of the LORD. 
          18      Then the king said to Doeg, “You turn around and attack the priests.” And Doeg the Edomite turned around and attacked the priests, and he killed that day eighty-five men who wore the linen ephod. 
          19      And he struck Nob the city of the priests with the edge of the sword, both men and women, children and infants; also oxen, donkeys, and sheep he struck with the edge of the sword. 
          20      But one son of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, escaped and fled after David. 
          21      Abiathar told David that Saul had killed the priests of the LORD. 
          22      Then David said to Abiathar, “I knew on that day, when Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Saul. I have brought about the death of every person in your father’s household. 
          23      “Stay with me; do not be afraid, for he who seeks my life seeks your life, for you are safe with me.” 




Chapter 23


David Delivers Keilah

          1      Then they told David, saying, “Behold, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah and are plundering the threshing floors.” 
          2      So David inquired of the LORD, saying, “Shall I go and attack these Philistines?” And the LORD said to David, “Go and attack the Philistines and deliver Keilah.” 
          3      But David’s men said to him, “Behold, we are afraid here in Judah. How much more then if we go to Keilah against the ranks of the Philistines?” 
          4      Then David inquired of the LORD once more. And the LORD answered him and said, “Arise, go down to Keilah, for I will give the Philistines into your hand.” 
          5      So David and his men went to Keilah and fought with the Philistines; and he led away their livestock and struck them with a great slaughter. Thus David delivered the inhabitants of Keilah. 
          6      Now it came about, when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David at Keilah, that he came down with an ephod in his hand. 
          7      When it was told Saul that David had come to Keilah, Saul said, “God has delivered him into my hand, for he shut himself in by entering a city with double gates and bars.” 
          8      So Saul summoned all the people for war, to go down to Keilah to besiege David and his men. 
          9      Now David knew that Saul was plotting evil against him; so he said to Abiathar the priest, “Bring the ephod here.” 
          10      Then David said, “O LORD God of Israel, Your servant has heard for certain that Saul is seeking to come to Keilah to destroy the city on my account. 
          11      “Will the men of Keilah surrender me into his hand? Will Saul come down just as Your servant has heard? O LORD God of Israel, I pray, tell Your servant.” And the LORD said, “He will come down.” 
          12      Then David said, “Will the men of Keilah surrender me and my men into the hand of Saul?” And the LORD said, “They will surrender you.” 
          13      Then David and his men, about six hundred, arose and departed from Keilah, and they went wherever they could go. When it was told Saul that David had escaped from Keilah, he gave up the pursuit. 
          14      David stayed in the wilderness in the strongholds, and remained in the hill country in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him every day, but God did not deliver him into his hand. 

Saul Pursues David

          15      Now David became aware that Saul had come out to seek his life while David was in the wilderness of Ziph at Horesh. 
          16      And Jonathan, Saul’s son, arose and went to David at Horesh, and encouraged him in God. 
          17      Thus he said to him, “Do not be afraid, because the hand of Saul my father will not find you, and you will be king over Israel and I will be next to you; and Saul my father knows that also.” 
          18      So the two of them made a covenant before the LORD; and David stayed at Horesh while Jonathan went to his house. 
          19      Then Ziphites came up to Saul at Gibeah, saying, “Is David not hiding with us in the strongholds at Horesh, on the hill of Hachilah, which is on the south of Jeshimon? 
          20      “Now then, O king, come down according to all the desire of your soul to do so; and our part shall be to surrender him into the king’s hand.” 
          21      Saul said, “May you be blessed of the LORD, for you have had compassion on me. 
          22      “Go now, make more sure, and investigate and see his place where his haunt is, and who has seen him there; for I am told that he is very cunning. 
          23      “So look, and learn about all the hiding places where he hides himself and return to me with certainty, and I will go with you; and if he is in the land, I will search him out among all the thousands of Judah.” 
          24      Then they arose and went to Ziph before Saul. Now David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the Arabah to the south of Jeshimon. 
          25      When Saul and his men went to seek him, they told David, and he came down to the rock and stayed in the wilderness of Maon. And when Saul heard it, he pursued David in the wilderness of Maon. 
          26      Saul went on one side of the mountain, and David and his men on the other side of the mountain; and David was hurrying to get away from Saul, for Saul and his men were surrounding David and his men to seize them. 
          27      But a messenger came to Saul, saying, “Hurry and come, for the Philistines have made a raid on the land.” 
          28      So Saul returned from pursuing David and went to meet the Philistines; therefore they called that place the Rock of Escape. 
          29      David went up from there and stayed in the strongholds of Engedi. 




Chapter 24


David Spares Saul’s Life

          1      Now when Saul returned from pursuing the Philistines, he was told, saying, “Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi.” 
          2      Then Saul took three thousand chosen men from all Israel and went to seek David and his men in front of the Rocks of the Wild Goats. 
          3      He came to the sheepfolds on the way, where there was a cave; and Saul went in to relieve himself. Now David and his men were sitting in the inner recesses of the cave. 
          4      The men of David said to him, “Behold, this is the day of which the LORD said to you, ‘Behold; I am about to give your enemy into your hand, and you shall do to him as it seems good to you.’ ” Then David arose and cut off the edge of Saul’s robe secretly. 
          5      It came about afterward that David’s conscience bothered him because he had cut off the edge of Saul’s robe. 
          6      So he said to his men, “Far be it from me because of the LORD that I should do this thing to my lord, the LORD’S anointed, to stretch out my hand against him, since he is the LORD’S anointed.” 
          7      David persuaded his men with these words and did not allow them to rise up against Saul. And Saul arose, left the cave, and went on his way. 
          8      Now afterward David arose and went out of the cave and called after Saul, saying, “My lord the king!” And when Saul looked behind him, David bowed with his face to the ground and prostrated himself. 
          9      David said to Saul, “Why do you listen to the words of men, saying, ‘Behold, David seeks to harm you’? 
          10      “Behold, this day your eyes have seen that the LORD had given you today into my hand in the cave, and some said to kill you, but my eye had pity on you; and I said, ‘I will not stretch out my hand against my lord, for he is the LORD’S anointed.’ 
          11      “Now, my father, see! Indeed, see the edge of your robe in my hand! For in that I cut off the edge of your robe and did not kill you, know and perceive that there is no evil or rebellion in my hands, and I have not sinned against you, though you are lying in wait for my life to take it. 
          12      “May the LORD judge between you and me, and may the LORD avenge me on you; but my hand shall not be against you. 
          13      “As the proverb of the ancients says, ‘Out of the wicked comes forth wickedness’; but my hand shall not be against you. 
          14      “After whom has the king of Israel come out? Whom are you pursuing? A dead dog, a single flea? 
          15      “The LORD therefore be judge and decide between you and me; and may He see and plead my cause and deliver me from your hand.” 
          16      When David had finished speaking these words to Saul, Saul said, “Is this your voice, my son David?” Then Saul lifted up his voice and wept. 
          17      He said to David, “You are more righteous than I; for you have dealt well with me, while I have dealt wickedly with you. 
          18      “You have declared today that you have done good to me, that the LORD delivered me into your hand and yet you did not kill me. 
          19      “For if a man finds his enemy, will he let him go away safely? May the LORD therefore reward you with good in return for what you have done to me this day. 
          20      “Now, behold, I know that you will surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel will be established in your hand. 
          21      “So now swear to me by the LORD that you will not cut off my descendants after me and that you will not destroy my name from my father’s household.” 
          22      David swore to Saul. And Saul went to his home, but David and his men went up to the stronghold. 




Chapter 25


Samuel’s Death

          1      Then Samuel died; and all Israel gathered together and mourned for him, and buried him at his house in Ramah. And David arose and went down to the wilderness of Paran. 

Nabal and Abigail

          2      Now there was a man in Maon whose business was in Carmel; and the man was very rich, and he had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats. And it came about while he was shearing his sheep in Carmel 
          3      (now the man’s name was Nabal, and his wife’s name was Abigail. And the woman was intelligent and beautiful in appearance, but the man was harsh and evil in his dealings, and he was a Calebite), 
          4      that David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep. 
          5      So David sent ten young men; and David said to the young men, “Go up to Carmel, visit Nabal and greet him in my name; 
          6      and thus you shall say, ‘Have a long life, peace be to you, and peace be to your house, and peace be to all that you have. 
          7      ‘Now I have heard that you have shearers; now your shepherds have been with us and we have not insulted them, nor have they missed anything all the days they were in Carmel. 
          8      ‘Ask your young men and they will tell you. Therefore let my young men find favor in your eyes, for we have come on a festive day. Please give whatever you find at hand to your servants and to your son David.’ ” 
          9      When David’s young men came, they spoke to Nabal according to all these words in David’s name; then they waited. 
          10      But Nabal answered David’s servants and said, “Who is David? And who is the son of Jesse? There are many servants today who are each breaking away from his master. 
          11      “Shall I then take my bread and my water and my meat that I have slaughtered for my shearers, and give it to men whose origin I do not know?” 
          12      So David’s young men retraced their way and went back; and they came and told him according to all these words. 
          13      David said to his men, “Each of you gird on his sword.” So each man girded on his sword. And David also girded on his sword, and about four hundred men went up behind David while two hundred stayed with the baggage. 
          14      But one of the young men told Abigail, Nabal’s wife, saying, “Behold, David sent messengers from the wilderness to greet our master, and he scorned them. 
          15      “Yet the men were very good to us, and we were not insulted, nor did we miss anything as long as we went about with them, while we were in the fields. 
          16      “They were a wall to us both by night and by day, all the time we were with them tending the sheep. 
          17      “Now therefore, know and consider what you should do, for evil is plotted against our master and against all his household; and he is such a worthless man that no one can speak to him.” 

Abigail Intercedes

          18      Then Abigail hurried and took two hundred loaves of bread and two jugs of wine and five sheep already prepared and five measures of roasted grain and a hundred clusters of raisins and two hundred cakes of figs, and loaded them on donkeys. 
          19      She said to her young men, “Go on before me; behold, I am coming after you.” But she did not tell her husband Nabal. 
          20      It came about as she was riding on her donkey and coming down by the hidden part of the mountain, that behold, David and his men were coming down toward her; so she met them. 
          21      Now David had said, “Surely in vain I have guarded all that this man has in the wilderness, so that nothing was missed of all that belonged to him; and he has returned me evil for good. 
          22      “May God do so to the enemies of David, and more also, if by morning I leave as much as one male of any who belong to him.” 
          23      When Abigail saw David, she hurried and dismounted from her donkey, and fell on her face before David and bowed herself to the ground. 
          24      She fell at his feet and said, “On me alone, my lord, be the blame. And please let your maidservant speak to you, and listen to the words of your maidservant. 
          25      “Please do not let my lord pay attention to this worthless man, Nabal, for as his name is, so is he. Nabal is his name and folly is with him; but I your maidservant did not see the young men of my lord whom you sent. 
          26      “Now therefore, my lord, as the LORD lives, and as your soul lives, since the LORD has restrained you from shedding blood, and from avenging yourself by your own hand, now then let your enemies and those who seek evil against my lord, be as Nabal. 
          27      “Now let this gift which your maidservant has brought to my lord be given to the young men who accompany my lord. 
          28      “Please forgive the transgression of your maidservant; for the LORD will certainly make for my lord an enduring house, because my lord is fighting the battles of the LORD, and evil will not be found in you all your days. 
          29      “Should anyone rise up to pursue you and to seek your life, then the life of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of the living with the LORD your God; but the lives of your enemies He will sling out as from the hollow of a sling. 
          30      “And when the LORD does for my lord according to all the good that He has spoken concerning you, and appoints you ruler over Israel, 
          31      this will not cause grief or a troubled heart to my lord, both by having shed blood without cause and by my lord having avenged himself. When the LORD deals well with my lord, then remember your maidservant.” 
          32      Then David said to Abigail, “Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, who sent you this day to meet me, 
          33      and blessed be your discernment, and blessed be you, who have kept me this day from bloodshed and from avenging myself by my own hand. 
          34      “Nevertheless, as the LORD God of Israel lives, who has restrained me from harming you, unless you had come quickly to meet me, surely there would not have been left to Nabal until the morning light as much as one male.” 
          35      So David received from her hand what she had brought him and said to her, “Go up to your house in peace. See, I have listened to you and granted your request.” 
          36      Then Abigail came to Nabal, and behold, he was holding a feast in his house, like the feast of a king. And Nabal’s heart was merry within him, for he was very drunk; so she did not tell him anything at all until the morning light. 
          37      But in the morning, when the wine had gone out of Nabal, his wife told him these things, and his heart died within him so that he became as a stone. 
          38      About ten days later, the LORD struck Nabal and he died. 

David Marries Abigail

          39      When David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, “Blessed be the LORD, who has pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal and has kept back His servant from evil. The LORD has also returned the evildoing of Nabal on his own head.” Then David sent a proposal to Abigail, to take her as his wife. 
          40      When the servants of David came to Abigail at Carmel, they spoke to her, saying, “David has sent us to you to take you as his wife.” 
          41      She arose and bowed with her face to the ground and said, “Behold, your maidservant is a maid to wash the feet of my lord’s servants.” 
          42      Then Abigail quickly arose, and rode on a donkey, with her five maidens who attended her; and she followed the messengers of David and became his wife. 
          43      David had also taken Ahinoam of Jezreel, and they both became his wives. 
          44      Now Saul had given Michal his daughter, David’s wife, to Palti the son of Laish, who was from Gallim. 




Chapter 26


David Again Spares Saul

          1      Then the Ziphites came to Saul at Gibeah, saying, “Is not David hiding on the hill of Hachilah, which is before Jeshimon?” 
          2      So Saul arose and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having with him three thousand chosen men of Israel, to search for David in the wilderness of Ziph. 
          3      Saul camped in the hill of Hachilah, which is before Jeshimon, beside the road, and David was staying in the wilderness. When he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness, 
          4      David sent out spies, and he knew that Saul was definitely coming. 
          5      David then arose and came to the place where Saul had camped. And David saw the place where Saul lay, and Abner the son of Ner, the commander of his army; and Saul was lying in the circle of the camp, and the people were camped around him. 
          6      Then David said to Ahimelech the Hittite and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab’s brother, saying, “Who will go down with me to Saul in the camp?” And Abishai said, “I will go down with you.” 
          7      So David and Abishai came to the people by night, and behold, Saul lay sleeping inside the circle of the camp with his spear stuck in the ground at his head; and Abner and the people were lying around him. 
          8      Then Abishai said to David, “Today God has delivered your enemy into your hand; now therefore, please let me strike him with the spear to the ground with one stroke, and I will not strike him the second time.” 
          9      But David said to Abishai, “Do not destroy him, for who can stretch out his hand against the LORD’S anointed and be without guilt?” 
          10      David also said, “As the LORD lives, surely the LORD will strike him, or his day will come that he dies, or he will go down into battle and perish. 
          11      “The LORD forbid that I should stretch out my hand against the LORD’S anointed; but now please take the spear that is at his head and the jug of water, and let us go.” 
          12      So David took the spear and the jug of water from beside Saul’s head, and they went away, but no one saw or knew it, nor did any awake, for they were all asleep, because a sound sleep from the LORD had fallen on them. 
          13      Then David crossed over to the other side and stood on top of the mountain at a distance with a large area between them. 
          14      David called to the people and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, “Will you not answer, Abner?” Then Abner replied, “Who are you who calls to the king?” 
          15      So David said to Abner, “Are you not a man? And who is like you in Israel? Why then have you not guarded your lord the king? For one of the people came to destroy the king your lord. 
          16      “This thing that you have done is not good. As the LORD lives, all of you must surely die, because you did not guard your lord, the LORD’S anointed. And now, see where the king’s spear is and the jug of water that was at his head.” 
          17      Then Saul recognized David’s voice and said, “Is this your voice, my son David?” And David said, “It is my voice, my lord the king.” 
          18      He also said, “Why then is my lord pursuing his servant? For what have I done? Or what evil is in my hand? 
          19      “Now therefore, please let my lord the king listen to the words of his servant. If the LORD has stirred you up against me, let Him accept an offering; but if it is men, cursed are they before the LORD, for they have driven me out today so that I would have no attachment with the inheritance of the LORD, saying, ‘Go, serve other gods.’ 
          20      “Now then, do not let my blood fall to the ground away from the presence of the LORD; for the king of Israel has come out to search for a single flea, just as one hunts a partridge in the mountains.” 
          21      Then Saul said, “I have sinned. Return, my son David, for I will not harm you again because my life was precious in your sight this day. Behold, I have played the fool and have committed a serious error.” 
          22      David replied, “Behold the spear of the king! Now let one of the young men come over and take it. 
          23      “The LORD will repay each man for his righteousness and his faithfulness; for the LORD delivered you into my hand today, but I refused to stretch out my hand against the LORD’S anointed. 
          24      “Now behold, as your life was highly valued in my sight this day, so may my life be highly valued in the sight of the LORD, and may He deliver me from all distress.” 
          25      Then Saul said to David, “Blessed are you, my son David; you will both accomplish much and surely prevail.” So David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place. 




Chapter 27


David Flees to the Philistines

          1      Then David said to himself, “Now I will perish one day by the hand of Saul. There is nothing better for me than to escape into the land of the Philistines. Saul then will despair of searching for me anymore in all the territory of Israel, and I will escape from his hand.” 
          2      So David arose and crossed over, he and the six hundred men who were with him, to Achish the son of Maoch, king of Gath. 
          3      And David lived with Achish at Gath, he and his men, each with his household, even David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, Nabal’s widow. 
          4      Now it was told Saul that David had fled to Gath, so he no longer searched for him. 
          5      Then David said to Achish, “If now I have found favor in your sight, let them give me a place in one of the cities in the country, that I may live there; for why should your servant live in the royal city with you?” 
          6      So Achish gave him Ziklag that day; therefore Ziklag has belonged to the kings of Judah to this day. 
          7      The number of days that David lived in the country of the Philistines was a year and four months. 
          8      Now David and his men went up and raided the Geshurites and the Girzites and the Amalekites; for they were the inhabitants of the land from ancient times, as you come to Shur even as far as the land of Egypt. 
          9      David attacked the land and did not leave a man or a woman alive, and he took away the sheep, the cattle, the donkeys, the camels, and the clothing. Then he returned and came to Achish. 
          10      Now Achish said, “Where have you made a raid today?” And David said, “Against the Negev of Judah and against the Negev of the Jerahmeelites and against the Negev of the Kenites.” 
          11      David did not leave a man or a woman alive to bring to Gath, saying, “Otherwise they will tell about us, saying, ‘So has David done and so has been his practice all the time he has lived in the country of the Philistines.’ ” 
          12      So Achish believed David, saying, “He has surely made himself odious among his people Israel; therefore he will become my servant forever.” 




Chapter 28


Saul and the Spirit Medium

          1      Now it came about in those days that the Philistines gathered their armed camps for war, to fight against Israel. And Achish said to David, “Know assuredly that you will go out with me in the camp, you and your men.” 
          2      David said to Achish, “Very well, you shall know what your servant can do.” So Achish said to David, “Very well, I will make you my bodyguard for life.” 
          3      Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him and buried him in Ramah, his own city. And Saul had removed from the land those who were mediums and spiritists. 
          4      So the Philistines gathered together and came and camped in Shunem; and Saul gathered all Israel together and they camped in Gilboa. 
          5      When Saul saw the camp of the Philistines, he was afraid and his heart trembled greatly. 
          6      When Saul inquired of the LORD, the LORD did not answer him, either by dreams or by Urim or by prophets. 
          7      Then Saul said to his servants, “Seek for me a woman who is a medium, that I may go to her and inquire of her.” And his servants said to him, “Behold, there is a woman who is a medium at En-dor.” 
          8      Then Saul disguised himself by putting on other clothes, and went, he and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night; and he said, “Conjure up for me, please, and bring up for me whom I shall name to you.” 
          9      But the woman said to him, “Behold, you know what Saul has done, how he has cut off those who are mediums and spiritists from the land. Why are you then laying a snare for my life to bring about my death?” 
          10      Saul vowed to her by the LORD, saying, “As the LORD lives, no punishment shall come upon you for this thing.” 
          11      Then the woman said, “Whom shall I bring up for you?” And he said, “Bring up Samuel for me.” 
          12      When the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice; and the woman spoke to Saul, saying, “Why have you deceived me? For you are Saul.” 
          13      The king said to her, “Do not be afraid; but what do you see?” And the woman said to Saul, “I see a divine being coming up out of the earth.” 
          14      He said to her, “What is his form?” And she said, “An old man is coming up, and he is wrapped with a robe.” And Saul knew that it was Samuel, and he bowed with his face to the ground and did homage. 
          15      Then Samuel said to Saul, “Why have you disturbed me by bringing me up?” And Saul answered, “I am greatly distressed; for the Philistines are waging war against me, and God has departed from me and no longer answers me, either through prophets or by dreams; therefore I have called you, that you may make known to me what I should do.” 
          16      Samuel said, “Why then do you ask me, since the LORD has departed from you and has become your adversary? 
          17      “The LORD has done accordingly as He spoke through me; for the LORD has torn the kingdom out of your hand and given it to your neighbor, to David. 
          18      “As you did not obey the LORD and did not execute His fierce wrath on Amalek, so the LORD has done this thing to you this day. 
          19      “Moreover the LORD will also give over Israel along with you into the hands of the Philistines, therefore tomorrow you and your sons will be with me. Indeed the LORD will give over the army of Israel into the hands of the Philistines!” 
          20      Then Saul immediately fell full length upon the ground and was very afraid because of the words of Samuel; also there was no strength in him, for he had eaten no food all day and all night. 
          21      The woman came to Saul and saw that he was terrified, and said to him, “Behold, your maidservant has obeyed you, and I have taken my life in my hand and have listened to your words which you spoke to me. 
          22      “So now also, please listen to the voice of your maidservant, and let me set a piece of bread before you that you may eat and have strength when you go on your way.” 
          23      But he refused and said, “I will not eat.” However, his servants together with the woman urged him, and he listened to them. So he arose from the ground and sat on the bed. 
          24      The woman had a fattened calf in the house, and she quickly slaughtered it; and she took flour, kneaded it and baked unleavened bread from it. 
          25      She brought it before Saul and his servants, and they ate. Then they arose and went away that night. 




Chapter 29


The Philistines Mistrust David

          1      Now the Philistines gathered together all their armies to Aphek, while the Israelites were camping by the spring which is in Jezreel. 
          2      And the lords of the Philistines were proceeding on by hundreds and by thousands, and David and his men were proceeding on in the rear with Achish. 
          3      Then the commanders of the Philistines said, “What are these Hebrews doing here?” And Achish said to the commanders of the Philistines, “Is this not David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who has been with me these days, or rather these years, and I have found no fault in him from the day he deserted to me to this day?” 
          4      But the commanders of the Philistines were angry with him, and the commanders of the Philistines said to him, “Make the man go back, that he may return to his place where you have assigned him, and do not let him go down to battle with us, or in the battle he may become an adversary to us. For with what could this man make himself acceptable to his lord? Would it not be with the heads of these men? 
          5      “Is this not David, of whom they sing in the dances, saying, 
         ‘Saul has slain his thousands, 
         And David his ten thousands’?” 
          6      Then Achish called David and said to him, “As the LORD lives, you have been upright, and your going out and your coming in with me in the army are pleasing in my sight; for I have not found evil in you from the day of your coming to me to this day. Nevertheless, you are not pleasing in the sight of the lords. 
          7      “Now therefore return and go in peace, that you may not displease the lords of the Philistines.” 
          8      David said to Achish, “But what have I done? And what have you found in your servant from the day when I came before you to this day, that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?” 
          9      But Achish replied to David, “I know that you are pleasing in my sight, like an angel of God; nevertheless the commanders of the Philistines have said, ‘He must not go up with us to the battle.’ 
          10      “Now then arise early in the morning with the servants of your lord who have come with you, and as soon as you have arisen early in the morning and have light, depart.” 
          11      So David arose early, he and his men, to depart in the morning to return to the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel. 




Chapter 30


David’s Victory over the Amalekites

          1      Then it happened when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had made a raid on the Negev and on Ziklag, and had overthrown Ziklag and burned it with fire; 
          2      and they took captive the women and all who were in it, both small and great, without killing anyone, and carried them off and went their way. 
          3      When David and his men came to the city, behold, it was burned with fire, and their wives and their sons and their daughters had been taken captive. 
          4      Then David and the people who were with him lifted their voices and wept until there was no strength in them to weep. 
          5      Now David’s two wives had been taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess and Abigail the widow of Nabal the Carmelite. 
          6      Moreover David was greatly distressed because the people spoke of stoning him, for all the people were embittered, each one because of his sons and his daughters. But David strengthened himself in the LORD his God. 
          7      Then David said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, “Please bring me the ephod.” So Abiathar brought the ephod to David. 
          8      David inquired of the LORD, saying, “Shall I pursue this band? Shall I overtake them?” And He said to him, “Pursue, for you will surely overtake them, and you will surely rescue all.” 
          9      So David went, he and the six hundred men who were with him, and came to the brook Besor, where those left behind remained. 
          10      But David pursued, he and four hundred men, for two hundred who were too exhausted to cross the brook Besor remained behind. 
          11      Now they found an Egyptian in the field and brought him to David, and gave him bread and he ate, and they provided him water to drink. 
          12      They gave him a piece of fig cake and two clusters of raisins, and he ate; then his spirit revived. For he had not eaten bread or drunk water for three days and three nights. 
          13      David said to him, “To whom do you belong? And where are you from?” And he said, “I am a young man of Egypt, a servant of an Amalekite; and my master left me behind when I fell sick three days ago. 
          14      “We made a raid on the Negev of the Cherethites, and on that which belongs to Judah, and on the Negev of Caleb, and we burned Ziklag with fire.” 
          15      Then David said to him, “Will you bring me down to this band?” And he said, “Swear to me by God that you will not kill me or deliver me into the hands of my master, and I will bring you down to this band.” 
          16      When he had brought him down, behold, they were spread over all the land, eating and drinking and dancing because of all the great spoil that they had taken from the land of the Philistines and from the land of Judah. 
          17      David slaughtered them from the twilight until the evening of the next day; and not a man of them escaped, except four hundred young men who rode on camels and fled. 
          18      So David recovered all that the Amalekites had taken, and rescued his two wives. 
          19      But nothing of theirs was missing, whether small or great, sons or daughters, spoil or anything that they had taken for themselves; David brought it all back. 
          20      So David had captured all the sheep and the cattle which the people drove ahead of the other livestock, and they said, “This is David’s spoil.” 

The Spoils Are Divided

          21      When David came to the two hundred men who were too exhausted to follow David, who had also been left at the brook Besor, and they went out to meet David and to meet the people who were with him, then David approached the people and greeted them. 
          22      Then all the wicked and worthless men among those who went with David said, “Because they did not go with us, we will not give them any of the spoil that we have recovered, except to every man his wife and his children, that they may lead them away and depart.” 
          23      Then David said, “You must not do so, my brothers, with what the LORD has given us, who has kept us and delivered into our hand the band that came against us. 
          24      “And who will listen to you in this matter? For as his share is who goes down to the battle, so shall his share be who stays by the baggage; they shall share alike.” 
          25      So it has been from that day forward, that he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel to this day. 
          26      Now when David came to Ziklag, he sent some of the spoil to the elders of Judah, to his friends, saying, “Behold, a gift for you from the spoil of the enemies of the LORD: 
          27      to those who were in Bethel, and to those who were in Ramoth of the Negev, and to those who were in Jattir, 
          28      and to those who were in Aroer, and to those who were in Siphmoth, and to those who were in Eshtemoa, 
          29      and to those who were in Racal, and to those who were in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, and to those who were in the cities of the Kenites, 
          30      and to those who were in Hormah, and to those who were in Bor-ashan, and to those who were in Athach, 
          31      and to those who were in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself and his men were accustomed to go.” 




Chapter 31


Saul and His Sons Slain

          1      Now the Philistines were fighting against Israel, and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines and fell slain on Mount Gilboa. 
          2      The Philistines overtook Saul and his sons; and the Philistines killed Jonathan and Abinadab and Malchi-shua the sons of Saul. 
          3      The battle went heavily against Saul, and the archers hit him; and he was badly wounded by the archers. 
          4      Then Saul said to his armor bearer, “Draw your sword and pierce me through with it, otherwise these uncircumcised will come and pierce me through and make sport of me.” But his armor bearer would not, for he was greatly afraid. So Saul took his sword and fell on it. 
          5      When his armor bearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell on his sword and died with him. 
          6      Thus Saul died with his three sons, his armor bearer, and all his men on that day together. 
          7      When the men of Israel who were on the other side of the valley, with those who were beyond the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel had fled and that Saul and his sons were dead, they abandoned the cities and fled; then the Philistines came and lived in them. 
          8      It came about on the next day when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his three sons fallen on Mount Gilboa. 
          9      They cut off his head and stripped off his weapons, and sent them throughout the land of the Philistines, to carry the good news to the house of their idols and to the people. 
          10      They put his weapons in the temple of Ashtaroth, and they fastened his body to the wall of Beth-shan. 
          11      Now when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul, 
          12      all the valiant men rose and walked all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan, and they came to Jabesh and burned them there. 
          13      They took their bones and buried them under the tamarisk tree at Jabesh, and fasted seven days. 










The Second Book of
SAMUEL




Chapter 1


David Learns of Saul’s Death

          1      Now it came about after the death of Saul, when David had returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites, that David remained two days in Ziklag. 
          2      On the third day, behold, a man came out of the camp from Saul, with his clothes torn and dust on his head. And it came about when he came to David that he fell to the ground and prostrated himself. 
          3      Then David said to him, “From where do you come?” And he said to him, “I have escaped from the camp of Israel.” 
          4      David said to him, “How did things go? Please tell me.” And he said, “The people have fled from the battle, and also many of the people have fallen and are dead; and Saul and Jonathan his son are dead also.” 
          5      So David said to the young man who told him, “How do you know that Saul and his son Jonathan are dead?” 
          6      The young man who told him said, “By chance I happened to be on Mount Gilboa, and behold, Saul was leaning on his spear. And behold, the chariots and the horsemen pursued him closely. 
          7      “When he looked behind him, he saw me and called to me. And I said, ‘Here I am.’ 
          8      “He said to me, ‘Who are you?’ And I answered him, ‘I am an Amalekite.’ 
          9      “Then he said to me, ‘Please stand beside me and kill me, for agony has seized me because my life still lingers in me.’ 
          10      “So I stood beside him and killed him, because I knew that he could not live after he had fallen. And I took the crown which was on his head and the bracelet which was on his arm, and I have brought them here to my lord.” 
          11      Then David took hold of his clothes and tore them, and so also did all the men who were with him. 
          12      They mourned and wept and fasted until evening for Saul and his son Jonathan and for the people of the LORD and the house of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword. 
          13      David said to the young man who told him, “Where are you from?” And he answered, “I am the son of an alien, an Amalekite.” 
          14      Then David said to him, “How is it you were not afraid to stretch out your hand to destroy the LORD’S anointed?” 
          15      And David called one of the young men and said, “Go, cut him down.” So he struck him and he died. 
          16      David said to him, “Your blood is on your head, for your mouth has testified against you, saying, ‘I have killed the LORD’S anointed.’ ” 

David’s Dirge for Saul and Jonathan

          17      Then David chanted with this lament over Saul and Jonathan his son, 
          18      and he told them to teach the sons of Judah the song of the bow; behold, it is written in the book of Jashar. 
               19      “Your beauty, O Israel, is slain on your high places! 
         How have the mighty fallen! 
               20      “Tell it not in Gath, 
         Proclaim it not in the streets of Ashkelon, 
         Or the daughters of the Philistines will rejoice, 
         The daughters of the uncircumcised will exult. 
               21      “O mountains of Gilboa, 
         Let not dew or rain be on you, nor fields of offerings; 
         For there the shield of the mighty was defiled, 
         The shield of Saul, not anointed with oil. 
               22      “From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, 
         The bow of Jonathan did not turn back, 
         And the sword of Saul did not return empty. 
               23      “Saul and Jonathan, beloved and pleasant in their life, 
         And in their death they were not parted; 
         They were swifter than eagles, 
         They were stronger than lions. 
               24      “O daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, 
         Who clothed you luxuriously in scarlet, 
         Who put ornaments of gold on your apparel. 
               25      “How have the mighty fallen in the midst of the battle! 
         Jonathan is slain on your high places. 
               26      “I am distressed for you, my brother Jonathan; 
         You have been very pleasant to me. 
         Your love to me was more wonderful 
         Than the love of women. 
               27      “How have the mighty fallen, 
         And the weapons of war perished!” 




Chapter 2


David Made King over Judah

          1      Then it came about afterwards that David inquired of the LORD, saying, “Shall I go up to one of the cities of Judah?” And the LORD said to him, “Go up.” So David said, “Where shall I go up?” And He said, “To Hebron.” 
          2      So David went up there, and his two wives also, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess and Abigail the widow of Nabal the Carmelite. 
          3      And David brought up his men who were with him, each with his household; and they lived in the cities of Hebron. 
          4      Then the men of Judah came and there anointed David king over the house of Judah. 
    And they told David, saying, “It was the men of Jabesh-gilead who buried Saul.” 
          5      David sent messengers to the men of Jabesh-gilead, and said to them, “May you be blessed of the LORD because you have shown this kindness to Saul your lord, and have buried him. 
          6      “Now may the LORD show lovingkindness and truth to you; and I also will show this goodness to you, because you have done this thing. 
          7      “Now therefore, let your hands be strong and be valiant; for Saul your lord is dead, and also the house of Judah has anointed me king over them.” 

Ish-bosheth Made King over Israel

          8      But Abner the son of Ner, commander of Saul’s army, had taken Ish-bosheth the son of Saul and brought him over to Mahanaim. 
          9      He made him king over Gilead, over the Ashurites, over Jezreel, over Ephraim, and over Benjamin, even over all Israel. 
          10      Ish-bosheth, Saul’s son, was forty years old when he became king over Israel, and he was king for two years. The house of Judah, however, followed David. 
          11      The time that David was king in Hebron over the house of Judah was seven years and six months. 

Civil War

          12      Now Abner the son of Ner, went out from Mahanaim to Gibeon with the servants of Ish-bosheth the son of Saul. 
          13      And Joab the son of Zeruiah and the servants of David went out and met them by the pool of Gibeon; and they sat down, one on the one side of the pool and the other on the other side of the pool. 
          14      Then Abner said to Joab, “Now let the young men arise and hold a contest before us.” And Joab said, “Let them arise.” 
          15      So they arose and went over by count, twelve for Benjamin and Ish-bosheth the son of Saul, and twelve of the servants of David. 
          16      Each one of them seized his opponent by the head and thrust his sword in his opponent’s side; so they fell down together. Therefore that place was called Helkath-hazzurim, which is in Gibeon. 
          17      That day the battle was very severe, and Abner and the men of Israel were beaten before the servants of David. 
          18      Now the three sons of Zeruiah were there, Joab and Abishai and Asahel; and Asahel was as swift-footed as one of the gazelles which is in the field. 
          19      Asahel pursued Abner and did not turn to the right or to the left from following Abner. 
          20      Then Abner looked behind him and said, “Is that you, Asahel?” And he answered, “It is I.” 
          21      So Abner said to him, “Turn to your right or to your left, and take hold of one of the young men for yourself, and take for yourself his spoil.” But Asahel was not willing to turn aside from following him. 
          22      Abner repeated again to Asahel, “Turn aside from following me. Why should I strike you to the ground? How then could I lift up my face to your brother Joab?” 
          23      However, he refused to turn aside; therefore Abner struck him in the belly with the butt end of the spear, so that the spear came out at his back. And he fell there and died on the spot. And it came about that all who came to the place where Asahel had fallen and died, stood still. 
          24      But Joab and Abishai pursued Abner, and when the sun was going down, they came to the hill of Ammah, which is in front of Giah by the way of the wilderness of Gibeon. 
          25      The sons of Benjamin gathered together behind Abner and became one band, and they stood on the top of a certain hill. 
          26      Then Abner called to Joab and said, “Shall the sword devour forever? Do you not know that it will be bitter in the end? How long will you refrain from telling the people to turn back from following their brothers?” 
          27      Joab said, “As God lives, if you had not spoken, surely then the people would have gone away in the morning, each from following his brother.” 
          28      So Joab blew the trumpet; and all the people halted and pursued Israel no longer, nor did they continue to fight anymore. 
          29      Abner and his men then went through the Arabah all that night; so they crossed the Jordan, walked all morning, and came to Mahanaim. 
          30      Then Joab returned from following Abner; when he had gathered all the people together, nineteen of David’s servants besides Asahel were missing. 
          31      But the servants of David had struck down many of Benjamin and Abner’s men, so that three hundred and sixty men died. 
          32      And they took up Asahel and buried him in his father’s tomb which was in Bethlehem. Then Joab and his men went all night until the day dawned at Hebron. 




Chapter 3


The House of David Strengthened

          1      Now there was a long war between the house of Saul and the house of David; and David grew steadily stronger, but the house of Saul grew weaker continually. 
          2      Sons were born to David at Hebron: his firstborn was Amnon, by Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; 
          3      and his second, Chileab, by Abigail the widow of Nabal the Carmelite; and the third, Absalom the son of Maacah, the daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur; 
          4      and the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith; and the fifth, Shephatiah the son of Abital; 
          5      and the sixth, Ithream, by David’s wife Eglah. These were born to David at Hebron. 

Abner Joins David

          6      It came about while there was war between the house of Saul and the house of David that Abner was making himself strong in the house of Saul. 
          7      Now Saul had a concubine whose name was Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah; and Ish-bosheth said to Abner, “Why have you gone in to my father’s concubine?” 
          8      Then Abner was very angry over the words of Ish-bosheth and said, “Am I a dog’s head that belongs to Judah? Today I show kindness to the house of Saul your father, to his brothers and to his friends, and have not delivered you into the hands of David; and yet today you charge me with a guilt concerning the woman. 
          9      “May God do so to Abner, and more also, if as the LORD has sworn to David, I do not accomplish this for him, 
          10      to transfer the kingdom from the house of Saul and to establish the throne of David over Israel and over Judah, from Dan even to Beersheba.” 
          11      And he could no longer answer Abner a word, because he was afraid of him. 
          12      Then Abner sent messengers to David in his place, saying, “Whose is the land? Make your covenant with me, and behold, my hand shall be with you to bring all Israel over to you.” 
          13      He said, “Good! I will make a covenant with you, but I demand one thing of you, namely, you shall not see my face unless you first bring Michal, Saul’s daughter, when you come to see me.” 
          14      So David sent messengers to Ish-bosheth, Saul’s son, saying, “Give me my wife Michal, to whom I was betrothed for a hundred foreskins of the Philistines.” 
          15      Ish-bosheth sent and took her from her husband, from Paltiel the son of Laish. 
          16      But her husband went with her, weeping as he went, and followed her as far as Bahurim. Then Abner said to him, “Go, return.” So he returned. 
          17      Now Abner had consultation with the elders of Israel, saying, “In times past you were seeking for David to be king over you. 
          18      “Now then, do it! For the LORD has spoken of David, saying, ‘By the hand of My servant David I will save My people Israel from the hand of the Philistines and from the hand of all their enemies.’ ” 
          19      Abner also spoke in the hearing of Benjamin; and in addition Abner went to speak in the hearing of David in Hebron all that seemed good to Israel and to the whole house of Benjamin. 
          20      Then Abner and twenty men with him came to David at Hebron. And David made a feast for Abner and the men who were with him. 
          21      Abner said to David, “Let me arise and go and gather all Israel to my lord the king, that they may make a covenant with you, and that you may be king over all that your soul desires.” So David sent Abner away, and he went in peace. 
          22      And behold, the servants of David and Joab came from a raid and brought much spoil with them; but Abner was not with David in Hebron, for he had sent him away, and he had gone in peace. 
          23      When Joab and all the army that was with him arrived, they told Joab, saying, “Abner the son of Ner came to the king, and he has sent him away, and he has gone in peace.” 
          24      Then Joab came to the king and said, “What have you done? Behold, Abner came to you; why then have you sent him away and he is already gone? 
          25      “You know Abner the son of Ner, that he came to deceive you and to learn of your going out and coming in and to find out all that you are doing.” 

Joab Murders Abner

          26      When Joab came out from David, he sent messengers after Abner, and they brought him back from the well of Sirah; but David did not know it. 
          27      So when Abner returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside into the middle of the gate to speak with him privately, and there he struck him in the belly so that he died on account of the blood of Asahel his brother. 
          28      Afterward when David heard it, he said, “I and my kingdom are innocent before the LORD forever of the blood of Abner the son of Ner. 
          29      “May it fall on the head of Joab and on all his father’s house; and may there not fail from the house of Joab one who has a discharge, or who is a leper, or who takes hold of a distaff, or who falls by the sword, or who lacks bread.” 
          30      So Joab and Abishai his brother killed Abner because he had put their brother Asahel to death in the battle at Gibeon. 

David Mourns Abner

          31      Then David said to Joab and to all the people who were with him, “Tear your clothes and gird on sackcloth and lament before Abner.” And King David walked behind the bier. 
          32      Thus they buried Abner in Hebron; and the king lifted up his voice and wept at the grave of Abner, and all the people wept. 
          33      The king chanted a lament for Abner and said, 
         “Should Abner die as a fool dies? 
               34      “Your hands were not bound, nor your feet put in fetters; 
         As one falls before the wicked, you have fallen.” 
    And all the people wept again over him. 
          35      Then all the people came to persuade David to eat bread while it was still day; but David vowed, saying, “May God do so to me, and more also, if I taste bread or anything else before the sun goes down.” 
          36      Now all the people took note of it, and it pleased them, just as everything the king did pleased all the people. 
          37      So all the people and all Israel understood that day that it had not been the will of the king to put Abner the son of Ner to death. 
          38      Then the king said to his servants, “Do you not know that a prince and a great man has fallen this day in Israel? 
          39      “I am weak today, though anointed king; and these men the sons of Zeruiah are too difficult for me. May the LORD repay the evildoer according to his evil.” 




Chapter 4


Ish-bosheth Murdered

          1      Now when Ish-bosheth, Saul’s son, heard that Abner had died in Hebron, he lost courage, and all Israel was disturbed. 
          2      Saul’s son had two men who were commanders of bands: the name of the one was Baanah and the name of the other Rechab, sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, of the sons of Benjamin (for Beeroth is also considered part of Benjamin, 
          3      and the Beerothites fled to Gittaim and have been aliens there until this day). 
          4      Now Jonathan, Saul’s son, had a son crippled in his feet. He was five years old when the report of Saul and Jonathan came from Jezreel, and his nurse took him up and fled. And it happened that in her hurry to flee, he fell and became lame. And his name was Mephibosheth. 
          5      So the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, Rechab and Baanah, departed and came to the house of Ish-bosheth in the heat of the day while he was taking his midday rest. 
          6      They came to the middle of the house as if to get wheat, and they struck him in the belly; and Rechab and Baanah his brother escaped. 
          7      Now when they came into the house, as he was lying on his bed in his bedroom, they struck him and killed him and beheaded him. And they took his head and traveled by way of the Arabah all night. 
          8      Then they brought the head of Ish-bosheth to David at Hebron and said to the king, “Behold, the head of Ish-bosheth the son of Saul, your enemy, who sought your life; thus the LORD has given my lord the king vengeance this day on Saul and his descendants.” 
          9      David answered Rechab and Baanah his brother, sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, and said to them, “As the LORD lives, who has redeemed my life from all distress, 
          10      when one told me, saying, ‘Behold, Saul is dead,’ and thought he was bringing good news, I seized him and killed him in Ziklag, which was the reward I gave him for his news. 
          11      “How much more, when wicked men have killed a righteous man in his own house on his bed, shall I not now require his blood from your hand and destroy you from the earth?” 
          12      Then David commanded the young men, and they killed them and cut off their hands and feet and hung them up beside the pool in Hebron. But they took the head of Ish-bosheth and buried it in the grave of Abner in Hebron. 




Chapter 5


David King over All Israel

          1      Then all the tribes of Israel came to David at Hebron and said, “Behold, we are your bone and your flesh. 
          2      “Previously, when Saul was king over us, you were the one who led Israel out and in. And the LORD said to you, ‘You will shepherd My people Israel, and you will be a ruler over Israel.’ ” 
          3      So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and King David made a covenant with them before the LORD at Hebron; then they anointed David king over Israel. 
          4      David was thirty years old when he became king, and he reigned forty years. 
          5      At Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months, and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty-three years over all Israel and Judah. 
          6      Now the king and his men went to Jerusalem against the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, and they said to David, “You shall not come in here, but the blind and lame will turn you away”; thinking, “David cannot enter here.” 
          7      Nevertheless, David captured the stronghold of Zion, that is the city of David. 
          8      David said on that day, “Whoever would strike the Jebusites, let him reach the lame and the blind, who are hated by David’s soul, through the water tunnel.” Therefore they say, “The blind or the lame shall not come into the house.” 
          9      So David lived in the stronghold and called it the city of David. And David built all around from the Millo and inward. 
          10      David became greater and greater, for the LORD God of hosts was with him. 
          11      Then Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David with cedar trees and carpenters and stonemasons; and they built a house for David. 
          12      And David realized that the LORD had established him as king over Israel, and that He had exalted his kingdom for the sake of His people Israel. 
          13      Meanwhile David took more concubines and wives from Jerusalem, after he came from Hebron; and more sons and daughters were born to David. 
          14      Now these are the names of those who were born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon, 
          15      Ibhar, Elishua, Nepheg, Japhia, 
          16      Elishama, Eliada and Eliphelet. 

War with the Philistines

          17      When the Philistines heard that they had anointed David king over Israel, all the Philistines went up to seek out David; and when David heard of it, he went down to the stronghold. 
          18      Now the Philistines came and spread themselves out in the valley of Rephaim. 
          19      Then David inquired of the LORD, saying, “Shall I go up against the Philistines? Will You give them into my hand?” And the LORD said to David, “Go up, for I will certainly give the Philistines into your hand.” 
          20      So David came to Baal-perazim and defeated them there; and he said, “The LORD has broken through my enemies before me like the breakthrough of waters.” Therefore he named that place Baal-perazim. 
          21      They abandoned their idols there, so David and his men carried them away. 
          22      Now the Philistines came up once again and spread themselves out in the valley of Rephaim. 
          23      When David inquired of the LORD, He said, “You shall not go directly up; circle around behind them and come at them in front of the balsam trees. 
          24      “It shall be, when you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the balsam trees, then you shall act promptly, for then the LORD will have gone out before you to strike the army of the Philistines.” 
          25      Then David did so, just as the LORD had commanded him, and struck down the Philistines from Geba as far as Gezer. 




Chapter 6


Peril in Moving the Ark

          1      Now David again gathered all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand. 
          2      And David arose and went with all the people who were with him to Baale-judah, to bring up from there the ark of God which is called by the Name, the very name of the LORD of hosts who is enthroned above the cherubim. 
          3      They placed the ark of God on a new cart that they might bring it from the house of Abinadab which was on the hill; and Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, were leading the new cart. 
          4      So they brought it with the ark of God from the house of Abinadab, which was on the hill; and Ahio was walking ahead of the ark. 
          5      Meanwhile, David and all the house of Israel were celebrating before the LORD with all kinds of instruments made of fir wood, and with lyres, harps, tambourines, castanets and cymbals. 
          6      But when they came to the threshing floor of Nacon, Uzzah reached out toward the ark of God and took hold of it, for the oxen nearly upset it. 
          7      And the anger of the LORD burned against Uzzah, and God struck him down there for his irreverence; and he died there by the ark of God. 
          8      David became angry because of the LORD’S outburst against Uzzah, and that place is called Perez-uzzah to this day. 
          9      So David was afraid of the LORD that day; and he said, “How can the ark of the LORD come to me?” 
          10      And David was unwilling to move the ark of the LORD into the city of David with him; but David took it aside to the house of Obed-edom the Gittite. 
          11      Thus the ark of the LORD remained in the house of Obed-edom the Gittite three months, and the LORD blessed Obed-edom and all his household. 

The Ark Is Brought to Jerusalem

          12      Now it was told King David, saying, “The LORD has blessed the house of Obed-edom and all that belongs to him, on account of the ark of God.” David went and brought up the ark of God from the house of Obed-edom into the city of David with gladness. 
          13      And so it was, that when the bearers of the ark of the LORD had gone six paces, he sacrificed an ox and a fatling. 
          14      And David was dancing before the LORD with all his might, and David was wearing a linen ephod. 
          15      So David and all the house of Israel were bringing up the ark of the LORD with shouting and the sound of the trumpet. 
          16      Then it happened as the ark of the LORD came into the city of David that Michal the daughter of Saul looked out of the window and saw King David leaping and dancing before the LORD; and she despised him in her heart. 
          17      So they brought in the ark of the LORD and set it in its place inside the tent which David had pitched for it; and David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the LORD. 
          18      When David had finished offering the burnt offering and the peace offering, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD of hosts. 
          19      Further, he distributed to all the people, to all the multitude of Israel, both to men and women, a cake of bread and one of dates and one of raisins to each one. Then all the people departed each to his house. 
          20      But when David returned to bless his household, Michal the daughter of Saul came out to meet David and said, “How the king of Israel distinguished himself today! He uncovered himself today in the eyes of his servants’ maids as one of the foolish ones shamelessly uncovers himself!” 
          21      So David said to Michal, “It was before the LORD, who chose me above your father and above all his house, to appoint me ruler over the people of the LORD, over Israel; therefore I will celebrate before the LORD. 
          22      “I will be more lightly esteemed than this and will be humble in my own eyes, but with the maids of whom you have spoken, with them I will be distinguished.” 
          23      Michal the daughter of Saul had no child to the day of her death. 




Chapter 7


David Plans to Build a Temple

          1      Now it came about when the king lived in his house, and the LORD had given him rest on every side from all his enemies, 
          2      that the king said to Nathan the prophet, “See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwells within tent curtains.” 
          3      Nathan said to the king, “Go, do all that is in your mind, for the LORD is with you.” 
          4      But in the same night the word of the LORD came to Nathan, saying, 
          5      “Go and say to My servant David, ‘Thus says the LORD, “Are you the one who should build Me a house to dwell in? 
          6      “For I have not dwelt in a house since the day I brought up the sons of Israel from Egypt, even to this day; but I have been moving about in a tent, even in a tabernacle. 
          7      “Wherever I have gone with all the sons of Israel, did I speak a word with one of the tribes of Israel, which I commanded to shepherd My people Israel, saying, ‘Why have you not built Me a house of cedar?’ ” ’ 

God’s Covenant with David

          8      “Now therefore, thus you shall say to My servant David, ‘Thus says the LORD of hosts, “I took you from the pasture, from following the sheep, to be ruler over My people Israel. 
          9      “I have been with you wherever you have gone and have cut off all your enemies from before you; and I will make you a great name, like the names of the great men who are on the earth. 
          10      “I will also appoint a place for My people Israel and will plant them, that they may live in their own place and not be disturbed again, nor will the wicked afflict them any more as formerly, 
          11      even from the day that I commanded judges to be over My people Israel; and I will give you rest from all your enemies. The LORD also declares to you that the LORD will make a house for you. 
          12      “When your days are complete and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up your descendant after you, who will come forth from you, and I will establish his kingdom. 
          13      “He shall build a house for My name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. 
          14      “I will be a father to him and he will be a son to Me; when he commits iniquity, I will correct him with the rod of men and the strokes of the sons of men, 
          15      but My lovingkindness shall not depart from him, as I took it away from Saul, whom I removed from before you. 
          16      “Your house and your kingdom shall endure before Me forever; your throne shall be established forever.” ’ ” 
          17      In accordance with all these words and all this vision, so Nathan spoke to David. 

David’s Prayer

          18      Then David the king went in and sat before the LORD, and he said, “Who am I, O Lord GOD, and what is my house, that You have brought me this far? 
          19      “And yet this was insignificant in Your eyes, O Lord GOD, for You have spoken also of the house of Your servant concerning the distant future. And this is the custom of man, O Lord GOD. 
          20      “Again what more can David say to You? For You know Your servant, O Lord GOD! 
          21      “For the sake of Your word, and according to Your own heart, You have done all this greatness to let Your servant know. 
          22      “For this reason You are great, O Lord GOD; for there is none like You, and there is no God besides You, according to all that we have heard with our ears. 
          23      “And what one nation on the earth is like Your people Israel, whom God went to redeem for Himself as a people and to make a name for Himself, and to do a great thing for You and awesome things for Your land, before Your people whom You have redeemed for Yourself from Egypt, from nations and their gods? 
          24      “For You have established for Yourself Your people Israel as Your own people forever, and You, O LORD, have become their God. 
          25      “Now therefore, O LORD God, the word that You have spoken concerning Your servant and his house, confirm it forever, and do as You have spoken, 
          26      that Your name may be magnified forever, by saying, ‘The LORD of hosts is God over Israel’; and may the house of Your servant David be established before You. 
          27      “For You, O LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, have made a revelation to Your servant, saying, ‘I will build you a house’; therefore Your servant has found courage to pray this prayer to You. 
          28      “Now, O Lord GOD, You are God, and Your words are truth, and You have promised this good thing to Your servant. 
          29      “Now therefore, may it please You to bless the house of Your servant, that it may continue forever before You. For You, O Lord GOD, have spoken; and with Your blessing may the house of Your servant be blessed forever.” 




Chapter 8


David’s Triumphs

          1      Now after this it came about that David defeated the Philistines and subdued them; and David took control of the chief city from the hand of the Philistines. 
          2      He defeated Moab, and measured them with the line, making them lie down on the ground; and he measured two lines to put to death and one full line to keep alive. And the Moabites became servants to David, bringing tribute. 
          3      Then David defeated Hadadezer, the son of Rehob king of Zobah, as he went to restore his rule at the River. 
          4      David captured from him 1,700 horsemen and 20,000 foot soldiers; and David hamstrung the chariot horses, but reserved enough of them for 100 chariots. 
          5      When the Arameans of Damascus came to help Hadadezer, king of Zobah, David killed 22,000 Arameans. 
          6      Then David put garrisons among the Arameans of Damascus, and the Arameans became servants to David, bringing tribute. And the LORD helped David wherever he went. 
          7      David took the shields of gold which were carried by the servants of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem. 
          8      From Betah and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, King David took a very large amount of bronze. 
          9      Now when Toi king of Hamath heard that David had defeated all the army of Hadadezer, 
          10      Toi sent Joram his son to King David to greet him and bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and defeated him; for Hadadezer had been at war with Toi. And Joram brought with him articles of silver, of gold and of bronze. 
          11      King David also dedicated these to the LORD, with the silver and gold that he had dedicated from all the nations which he had subdued: 
          12      from Aram and Moab and the sons of Ammon and the Philistines and Amalek, and from the spoil of Hadadezer, son of Rehob, king of Zobah. 
          13      So David made a name for himself when he returned from killing 18,000 Arameans in the Valley of Salt. 
          14      He put garrisons in Edom. In all Edom he put garrisons, and all the Edomites became servants to David. And the LORD helped David wherever he went. 
          15      So David reigned over all Israel; and David administered justice and righteousness for all his people. 
          16      Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army, and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder. 
          17      Zadok the son of Ahitub and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar were priests, and Seraiah was secretary. 
          18      Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David’s sons were chief ministers. 




Chapter 9


David’s Kindness to Mephibosheth

          1      Then David said, “Is there yet anyone left of the house of Saul, that I may show him kindness for Jonathan’s sake?” 
          2      Now there was a servant of the house of Saul whose name was Ziba, and they called him to David; and the king said to him, “Are you Ziba?” And he said, “I am your servant.” 
          3      The king said, “Is there not yet anyone of the house of Saul to whom I may show the kindness of God?” And Ziba said to the king, “There is still a son of Jonathan who is crippled in both feet.” 
          4      So the king said to him, “Where is he?” And Ziba said to the king, “Behold, he is in the house of Machir the son of Ammiel in Lo-debar.” 
          5      Then King David sent and brought him from the house of Machir the son of Ammiel, from Lo-debar. 
          6      Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan the son of Saul, came to David and fell on his face and prostrated himself. And David said, “Mephibosheth.” And he said, “Here is your servant!” 
          7      David said to him, “Do not fear, for I will surely show kindness to you for the sake of your father Jonathan, and will restore to you all the land of your grandfather Saul; and you shall eat at my table regularly.” 
          8      Again he prostrated himself and said, “What is your servant, that you should regard a dead dog like me?” 
          9      Then the king called Saul’s servant Ziba and said to him, “All that belonged to Saul and to all his house I have given to your master’s grandson. 
          10      “You and your sons and your servants shall cultivate the land for him, and you shall bring in the produce so that your master’s grandson may have food; nevertheless Mephibosheth your master’s grandson shall eat at my table regularly.” Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants. 
          11      Then Ziba said to the king, “According to all that my lord the king commands his servant so your servant will do.” So Mephibosheth ate at David’s table as one of the king’s sons. 
          12      Mephibosheth had a young son whose name was Mica. And all who lived in the house of Ziba were servants to Mephibosheth. 
          13      So Mephibosheth lived in Jerusalem, for he ate at the king’s table regularly. Now he was lame in both feet. 




Chapter 10


Ammon and Aram Defeated

          1      Now it happened afterwards that the king of the Ammonites died, and Hanun his son became king in his place. 
          2      Then David said, “I will show kindness to Hanun the son of Nahash, just as his father showed kindness to me.” So David sent some of his servants to console him concerning his father. But when David’s servants came to the land of the Ammonites, 
          3      the princes of the Ammonites said to Hanun their lord, “Do you think that David is honoring your father because he has sent consolers to you? Has David not sent his servants to you in order to search the city, to spy it out and overthrow it?” 
          4      So Hanun took David’s servants and shaved off half of their beards, and cut off their garments in the middle as far as their hips, and sent them away. 
          5      When they told it to David, he sent to meet them, for the men were greatly humiliated. And the king said, “Stay at Jericho until your beards grow, and then return.” 
          6      Now when the sons of Ammon saw that they had become odious to David, the sons of Ammon sent and hired the Arameans of Beth-rehob and the Arameans of Zobah, 20,000 foot soldiers, and the king of Maacah with 1,000 men, and the men of Tob with 12,000 men. 
          7      When David heard of it, he sent Joab and all the army, the mighty men. 
          8      The sons of Ammon came out and drew up in battle array at the entrance of the city, while the Arameans of Zobah and of Rehob and the men of Tob and Maacah were by themselves in the field. 
          9      Now when Joab saw that the battle was set against him in front and in the rear, he selected from all the choice men of Israel, and arrayed them against the Arameans. 
          10      But the remainder of the people he placed in the hand of Abishai his brother, and he arrayed them against the sons of Ammon. 
          11      He said, “If the Arameans are too strong for me, then you shall help me, but if the sons of Ammon are too strong for you, then I will come to help you. 
          12      “Be strong, and let us show ourselves courageous for the sake of our people and for the cities of our God; and may the LORD do what is good in His sight.” 
          13      So Joab and the people who were with him drew near to the battle against the Arameans, and they fled before him. 
          14      When the sons of Ammon saw that the Arameans fled, they also fled before Abishai and entered the city. Then Joab returned from fighting against the sons of Ammon and came to Jerusalem. 
          15      When the Arameans saw that they had been defeated by Israel, they gathered themselves together. 
          16      And Hadadezer sent and brought out the Arameans who were beyond the River, and they came to Helam; and Shobach the commander of the army of Hadadezer led them. 
          17      Now when it was told David, he gathered all Israel together and crossed the Jordan, and came to Helam. And the Arameans arrayed themselves to meet David and fought against him. 
          18      But the Arameans fled before Israel, and David killed 700 charioteers of the Arameans and 40,000 horsemen and struck down Shobach the commander of their army, and he died there. 
          19      When all the kings, servants of Hadadezer, saw that they were defeated by Israel, they made peace with Israel and served them. So the Arameans feared to help the sons of Ammon anymore. 




Chapter 11


Bathsheba, David’s Great Sin

          1      Then it happened in the spring, at the time when kings go out to battle, that David sent Joab and his servants with him and all Israel, and they destroyed the sons of Ammon and besieged Rabbah. But David stayed at Jerusalem. 
          2      Now when evening came David arose from his bed and walked around on the roof of the king’s house, and from the roof he saw a woman bathing; and the woman was very beautiful in appearance. 
          3      So David sent and inquired about the woman. And one said, “Is this not Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite?” 
          4      David sent messengers and took her, and when she came to him, he lay with her; and when she had purified herself from her uncleanness, she returned to her house. 
          5      The woman conceived; and she sent and told David, and said, “I am pregnant.” 
          6      Then David sent to Joab, saying, “Send me Uriah the Hittite.” So Joab sent Uriah to David. 
          7      When Uriah came to him, David asked concerning the welfare of Joab and the people and the state of the war. 
          8      Then David said to Uriah, “Go down to your house, and wash your feet.” And Uriah went out of the king’s house, and a present from the king was sent out after him. 
          9      But Uriah slept at the door of the king’s house with all the servants of his lord, and did not go down to his house. 
          10      Now when they told David, saying, “Uriah did not go down to his house,” David said to Uriah, “Have you not come from a journey? Why did you not go down to your house?” 
          11      Uriah said to David, “The ark and Israel and Judah are staying in temporary shelters, and my lord Joab and the servants of my lord are camping in the open field. Shall I then go to my house to eat and to drink and to lie with my wife? By your life and the life of your soul, I will not do this thing.” 
          12      Then David said to Uriah, “Stay here today also, and tomorrow I will let you go.” So Uriah remained in Jerusalem that day and the next. 
          13      Now David called him, and he ate and drank before him, and he made him drunk; and in the evening he went out to lie on his bed with his lord’s servants, but he did not go down to his house. 
          14      Now in the morning David wrote a letter to Joab and sent it by the hand of Uriah. 
          15      He had written in the letter, saying, “Place Uriah in the front line of the fiercest battle and withdraw from him, so that he may be struck down and die.” 
          16      So it was as Joab kept watch on the city, that he put Uriah at the place where he knew there were valiant men. 
          17      The men of the city went out and fought against Joab, and some of the people among David’s servants fell; and Uriah the Hittite also died. 
          18      Then Joab sent and reported to David all the events of the war. 
          19      He charged the messenger, saying, “When you have finished telling all the events of the war to the king, 
          20      and if it happens that the king’s wrath rises and he says to you, ‘Why did you go so near to the city to fight? Did you not know that they would shoot from the wall? 
          21      ‘Who struck down Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth? Did not a woman throw an upper millstone on him from the wall so that he died at Thebez? Why did you go so near the wall?’—then you shall say, ‘Your servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also.’ ” 
          22      So the messenger departed and came and reported to David all that Joab had sent him to tell. 
          23      The messenger said to David, “The men prevailed against us and came out against us in the field, but we pressed them as far as the entrance of the gate. 
          24      “Moreover, the archers shot at your servants from the wall; so some of the king’s servants are dead, and your servant Uriah the Hittite is also dead.” 
          25      Then David said to the messenger, “Thus you shall say to Joab, ‘Do not let this thing displease you, for the sword devours one as well as another; make your battle against the city stronger and overthrow it’; and so encourage him.” 
          26      Now when the wife of Uriah heard that Uriah her husband was dead, she mourned for her husband. 
          27      When the time of mourning was over, David sent and brought her to his house and she became his wife; then she bore him a son. But the thing that David had done was evil in the sight of the LORD. 




Chapter 12


Nathan Rebukes David

          1      Then the LORD sent Nathan to David. And he came to him and said, 
         “There were two men in one city, the one rich and the other poor. 
               2      “The rich man had a great many flocks and herds. 
               3      “But the poor man had nothing except one little ewe lamb 
         Which he bought and nourished; 
         And it grew up together with him and his children. 
         It would eat of his bread and drink of his cup and lie in his bosom, 
         And was like a daughter to him. 
               4      “Now a traveler came to the rich man, 
         And he was unwilling to take from his own flock or his own herd, 
         To prepare for the wayfarer who had come to him; 
         Rather he took the poor man’s ewe lamb and prepared it for the man who had come to him.” 
          5      Then David’s anger burned greatly against the man, and he said to Nathan, “As the LORD lives, surely the man who has done this deserves to die. 
          6      “He must make restitution for the lamb fourfold, because he did this thing and had no compassion.” 
          7      Nathan then said to David, “You are the man! Thus says the LORD God of Israel, ‘It is I who anointed you king over Israel and it is I who delivered you from the hand of Saul. 
          8      ‘I also gave you your master’s house and your master’s wives into your care, and I gave you the house of Israel and Judah; and if that had been too little, I would have added to you many more things like these! 
          9      ‘Why have you despised the word of the LORD by doing evil in His sight? You have struck down Uriah the Hittite with the sword, have taken his wife to be your wife, and have killed him with the sword of the sons of Ammon. 
          10      ‘Now therefore, the sword shall never depart from your house, because you have despised Me and have taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife.’ 
          11      “Thus says the LORD, ‘Behold, I will raise up evil against you from your own household; I will even take your wives before your eyes and give them to your companion, and he will lie with your wives in broad daylight. 
          12      ‘Indeed you did it secretly, but I will do this thing before all Israel, and under the sun.’ ” 
          13      Then David said to Nathan, “I have sinned against the LORD.” And Nathan said to David, “The LORD also has taken away your sin; you shall not die. 
          14      “However, because by this deed you have given occasion to the enemies of the LORD to blaspheme, the child also that is born to you shall surely die.” 
          15      So Nathan went to his house. 

Loss of a Child

    Then the LORD struck the child that Uriah’s widow bore to David, so that he was very sick. 
          16      David therefore inquired of God for the child; and David fasted and went and lay all night on the ground. 
          17      The elders of his household stood beside him in order to raise him up from the ground, but he was unwilling and would not eat food with them. 
          18      Then it happened on the seventh day that the child died. And the servants of David were afraid to tell him that the child was dead, for they said, “Behold, while the child was still alive, we spoke to him and he did not listen to our voice. How then can we tell him that the child is dead, since he might do himself harm!” 
          19      But when David saw that his servants were whispering together, David perceived that the child was dead; so David said to his servants, “Is the child dead?” And they said, “He is dead.” 
          20      So David arose from the ground, washed, anointed himself, and changed his clothes; and he came into the house of the LORD and worshiped. Then he came to his own house, and when he requested, they set food before him and he ate. 
          21      Then his servants said to him, “What is this thing that you have done? While the child was alive, you fasted and wept; but when the child died, you arose and ate food.” 
          22      He said, “While the child was still alive, I fasted and wept; for I said, ‘Who knows, the LORD may be gracious to me, that the child may live.’ 
          23      “But now he has died; why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I will go to him, but he will not return to me.” 

Solomon Born

          24      Then David comforted his wife Bathsheba, and went in to her and lay with her; and she gave birth to a son, and he named him Solomon. Now the LORD loved him 
          25      and sent word through Nathan the prophet, and he named him Jedidiah for the LORD’S sake. 

War Again

          26      Now Joab fought against Rabbah of the sons of Ammon and captured the royal city. 
          27      Joab sent messengers to David and said, “I have fought against Rabbah, I have even captured the city of waters. 
          28      “Now therefore, gather the rest of the people together and camp against the city and capture it, or I will capture the city myself and it will be named after me.” 
          29      So David gathered all the people and went to Rabbah, fought against it and captured it. 
          30      Then he took the crown of their king from his head; and its weight was a talent of gold, and in it was a precious stone; and it was placed on David’s head. And he brought out the spoil of the city in great amounts. 
          31      He also brought out the people who were in it, and set them under saws, sharp iron instruments, and iron axes, and made them pass through the brickkiln. And thus he did to all the cities of the sons of Ammon. Then David and all the people returned to Jerusalem. 




Chapter 13


Amnon and Tamar

          1      Now it was after this that Absalom the son of David had a beautiful sister whose name was Tamar, and Amnon the son of David loved her. 
          2      Amnon was so frustrated because of his sister Tamar that he made himself ill, for she was a virgin, and it seemed hard to Amnon to do anything to her. 
          3      But Amnon had a friend whose name was Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, David’s brother; and Jonadab was a very shrewd man. 
          4      He said to him, “O son of the king, why are you so depressed morning after morning? Will you not tell me?” Then Amnon said to him, “I am in love with Tamar, the sister of my brother Absalom.” 
          5      Jonadab then said to him, “Lie down on your bed and pretend to be ill; when your father comes to see you, say to him, ‘Please let my sister Tamar come and give me some food to eat, and let her prepare the food in my sight, that I may see it and eat from her hand.’ ” 
          6      So Amnon lay down and pretended to be ill; when the king came to see him, Amnon said to the king, “Please let my sister Tamar come and make me a couple of cakes in my sight, that I may eat from her hand.” 
          7      Then David sent to the house for Tamar, saying, “Go now to your brother Amnon’s house, and prepare food for him.” 
          8      So Tamar went to her brother Amnon’s house, and he was lying down. And she took dough, kneaded it, made cakes in his sight, and baked the cakes. 
          9      She took the pan and dished them out before him, but he refused to eat. And Amnon said, “Have everyone go out from me.” So everyone went out from him. 
          10      Then Amnon said to Tamar, “Bring the food into the bedroom, that I may eat from your hand.” So Tamar took the cakes which she had made and brought them into the bedroom to her brother Amnon. 
          11      When she brought them to him to eat, he took hold of her and said to her, “Come, lie with me, my sister.” 
          12      But she answered him, “No, my brother, do not violate me, for such a thing is not done in Israel; do not do this disgraceful thing! 
          13      “As for me, where could I get rid of my reproach? And as for you, you will be like one of the fools in Israel. Now therefore, please speak to the king, for he will not withhold me from you.” 
          14      However, he would not listen to her; since he was stronger than she, he violated her and lay with her. 
          15      Then Amnon hated her with a very great hatred; for the hatred with which he hated her was greater than the love with which he had loved her. And Amnon said to her, “Get up, go away!” 
          16      But she said to him, “No, because this wrong in sending me away is greater than the other that you have done to me!” Yet he would not listen to her. 
          17      Then he called his young man who attended him and said, “Now throw this woman out of my presence, and lock the door behind her.” 
          18      Now she had on a long-sleeved garment; for in this manner the virgin daughters of the king dressed themselves in robes. Then his attendant took her out and locked the door behind her. 
          19      Tamar put ashes on her head and tore her long-sleeved garment which was on her; and she put her hand on her head and went away, crying aloud as she went. 
          20      Then Absalom her brother said to her, “Has Amnon your brother been with you? But now keep silent, my sister, he is your brother; do not take this matter to heart.” So Tamar remained and was desolate in her brother Absalom’s house. 
          21      Now when King David heard of all these matters, he was very angry. 
          22      But Absalom did not speak to Amnon either good or bad; for Absalom hated Amnon because he had violated his sister Tamar. 
          23      Now it came about after two full years that Absalom had sheepshearers in Baal-hazor, which is near Ephraim, and Absalom invited all the king’s sons. 

Absalom Avenges Tamar

          24      Absalom came to the king and said, “Behold now, your servant has sheepshearers; please let the king and his servants go with your servant.” 
          25      But the king said to Absalom, “No, my son, we should not all go, for we will be burdensome to you.” Although he urged him, he would not go, but blessed him. 
          26      Then Absalom said, “If not, please let my brother Amnon go with us.” And the king said to him, “Why should he go with you?” 
          27      But when Absalom urged him, he let Amnon and all the king’s sons go with him. 
          28      Absalom commanded his servants, saying, “See now, when Amnon’s heart is merry with wine, and when I say to you, ‘Strike Amnon,’ then put him to death. Do not fear; have not I myself commanded you? Be courageous and be valiant.” 
          29      The servants of Absalom did to Amnon just as Absalom had commanded. Then all the king’s sons arose and each mounted his mule and fled. 
          30      Now it was while they were on the way that the report came to David, saying, “Absalom has struck down all the king’s sons, and not one of them is left.” 
          31      Then the king arose, tore his clothes and lay on the ground; and all his servants were standing by with clothes torn. 
          32      Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, David’s brother, responded, “Do not let my lord suppose they have put to death all the young men, the king’s sons, for Amnon alone is dead; because by the intent of Absalom this has been determined since the day that he violated his sister Tamar. 
          33      “Now therefore, do not let my lord the king take the report to heart, namely, ‘all the king’s sons are dead,’ for only Amnon is dead.” 
          34      Now Absalom had fled. And the young man who was the watchman raised his eyes and looked, and behold, many people were coming from the road behind him by the side of the mountain. 
          35      Jonadab said to the king, “Behold, the king’s sons have come; according to your servant’s word, so it happened.” 
          36      As soon as he had finished speaking, behold, the king’s sons came and lifted their voices and wept; and also the king and all his servants wept very bitterly. 
          37      Now Absalom fled and went to Talmai the son of Ammihud, the king of Geshur. And David mourned for his son every day. 
          38      So Absalom had fled and gone to Geshur, and was there three years. 
          39      The heart of King David longed to go out to Absalom; for he was comforted concerning Amnon, since he was dead. 




Chapter 14


The Woman of Tekoa

          1      Now Joab the son of Zeruiah perceived that the king’s heart was inclined toward Absalom. 
          2      So Joab sent to Tekoa and brought a wise woman from there and said to her, “Please pretend to be a mourner, and put on mourning garments now, and do not anoint yourself with oil, but be like a woman who has been mourning for the dead many days; 
          3      then go to the king and speak to him in this manner.” So Joab put the words in her mouth. 
          4      Now when the woman of Tekoa spoke to the king, she fell on her face to the ground and prostrated herself and said, “Help, O king.” 
          5      The king said to her, “What is your trouble?” And she answered, “Truly I am a widow, for my husband is dead. 
          6      “Your maidservant had two sons, but the two of them struggled together in the field, and there was no one to separate them, so one struck the other and killed him. 
          7      “Now behold, the whole family has risen against your maidservant, and they say, ‘Hand over the one who struck his brother, that we may put him to death for the life of his brother whom he killed, and destroy the heir also.’ Thus they will extinguish my coal which is left, so as to leave my husband neither name nor remnant on the face of the earth.” 
          8      Then the king said to the woman, “Go to your house, and I will give orders concerning you.” 
          9      The woman of Tekoa said to the king, “O my lord, the king, the iniquity is on me and my father’s house, but the king and his throne are guiltless.” 
          10      So the king said, “Whoever speaks to you, bring him to me, and he will not touch you anymore.” 
          11      Then she said, “Please let the king remember the LORD your God, so that the avenger of blood will not continue to destroy, otherwise they will destroy my son.” And he said, “As the LORD lives, not one hair of your son shall fall to the ground.” 
          12      Then the woman said, “Please let your maidservant speak a word to my lord the king.” And he said, “Speak.” 
          13      The woman said, “Why then have you planned such a thing against the people of God? For in speaking this word the king is as one who is guilty, in that the king does not bring back his banished one. 
          14      “For we will surely die and are like water spilled on the ground which cannot be gathered up again. Yet God does not take away life, but plans ways so that the banished one will not be cast out from him. 
          15      “Now the reason I have come to speak this word to my lord the king is that the people have made me afraid; so your maidservant said, ‘Let me now speak to the king, perhaps the king will perform the request of his maidservant. 
          16      ‘For the king will hear and deliver his maidservant from the hand of the man who would destroy both me and my son from the inheritance of God.’ 
          17      “Then your maidservant said, ‘Please let the word of my lord the king be comforting, for as the angel of God, so is my lord the king to discern good and evil. And may the LORD your God be with you.’ ” 
          18      Then the king answered and said to the woman, “Please do not hide anything from me that I am about to ask you.” And the woman said, “Let my lord the king please speak.” 
          19      So the king said, “Is the hand of Joab with you in all this?” And the woman replied, “As your soul lives, my lord the king, no one can turn to the right or to the left from anything that my lord the king has spoken. Indeed, it was your servant Joab who commanded me, and it was he who put all these words in the mouth of your maidservant; 
          20      in order to change the appearance of things your servant Joab has done this thing. But my lord is wise, like the wisdom of the angel of God, to know all that is in the earth.” 

Absalom Is Recalled

          21      Then the king said to Joab, “Behold now, I will surely do this thing; go therefore, bring back the young man Absalom.” 
          22      Joab fell on his face to the ground, prostrated himself and blessed the king; then Joab said, “Today your servant knows that I have found favor in your sight, O my lord, the king, in that the king has performed the request of his servant.” 
          23      So Joab arose and went to Geshur and brought Absalom to Jerusalem. 
          24      However the king said, “Let him turn to his own house, and let him not see my face.” So Absalom turned to his own house and did not see the king’s face. 
          25      Now in all Israel was no one as handsome as Absalom, so highly praised; from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head there was no defect in him. 
          26      When he cut the hair of his head (and it was at the end of every year that he cut it, for it was heavy on him so he cut it), he weighed the hair of his head at 200 shekels by the king’s weight. 
          27      To Absalom there were born three sons, and one daughter whose name was Tamar; she was a woman of beautiful appearance. 
          28      Now Absalom lived two full years in Jerusalem, and did not see the king’s face. 
          29      Then Absalom sent for Joab, to send him to the king, but he would not come to him. So he sent again a second time, but he would not come. 
          30      Therefore he said to his servants, “See, Joab’s field is next to mine, and he has barley there; go and set it on fire.” So Absalom’s servants set the field on fire. 
          31      Then Joab arose, came to Absalom at his house and said to him, “Why have your servants set my field on fire?” 
          32      Absalom answered Joab, “Behold, I sent for you, saying, ‘Come here, that I may send you to the king, to say, “Why have I come from Geshur? It would be better for me still to be there.” ’ Now therefore, let me see the king’s face, and if there is iniquity in me, let him put me to death.” 
          33      So when Joab came to the king and told him, he called for Absalom. Thus he came to the king and prostrated himself on his face to the ground before the king, and the king kissed Absalom. 




Chapter 15


Absalom’s Conspiracy

          1      Now it came about after this that Absalom provided for himself a chariot and horses and fifty men as runners before him. 
          2      Absalom used to rise early and stand beside the way to the gate; and when any man had a suit to come to the king for judgment, Absalom would call to him and say, “From what city are you?” And he would say, “Your servant is from one of the tribes of Israel.” 
          3      Then Absalom would say to him, “See, your claims are good and right, but no man listens to you on the part of the king.” 
          4      Moreover, Absalom would say, “Oh that one would appoint me judge in the land, then every man who has any suit or cause could come to me and I would give him justice.” 
          5      And when a man came near to prostrate himself before him, he would put out his hand and take hold of him and kiss him. 
          6      In this manner Absalom dealt with all Israel who came to the king for judgment; so Absalom stole away the hearts of the men of Israel. 
          7      Now it came about at the end of forty years that Absalom said to the king, “Please let me go and pay my vow which I have vowed to the LORD, in Hebron. 
          8      “For your servant vowed a vow while I was living at Geshur in Aram, saying, ‘If the LORD shall indeed bring me back to Jerusalem, then I will serve the LORD.’ ” 
          9      The king said to him, “Go in peace.” So he arose and went to Hebron. 
          10      But Absalom sent spies throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, “As soon as you hear the sound of the trumpet, then you shall say, ‘Absalom is king in Hebron.’ ” 
          11      Then two hundred men went with Absalom from Jerusalem, who were invited and went innocently, and they did not know anything. 
          12      And Absalom sent for Ahithophel the Gilonite, David’s counselor, from his city Giloh, while he was offering the sacrifices. And the conspiracy was strong, for the people increased continually with Absalom. 

David Flees Jerusalem

          13      Then a messenger came to David, saying, “The hearts of the men of Israel are with Absalom.” 
          14      David said to all his servants who were with him at Jerusalem, “Arise and let us flee, for otherwise none of us will escape from Absalom. Go in haste, or he will overtake us quickly and bring down calamity on us and strike the city with the edge of the sword.” 
          15      Then the king’s servants said to the king, “Behold, your servants are ready to do whatever my lord the king chooses.” 
          16      So the king went out and all his household with him. But the king left ten concubines to keep the house. 
          17      The king went out and all the people with him, and they stopped at the last house. 
          18      Now all his servants passed on beside him, all the Cherethites, all the Pelethites and all the Gittites, six hundred men who had come with him from Gath, passed on before the king. 
          19      Then the king said to Ittai the Gittite, “Why will you also go with us? Return and remain with the king, for you are a foreigner and also an exile; return to your own place. 
          20      “You came only yesterday, and shall I today make you wander with us, while I go where I will? Return and take back your brothers; mercy and truth be with you.” 
          21      But Ittai answered the king and said, “As the LORD lives, and as my lord the king lives, surely wherever my lord the king may be, whether for death or for life, there also your servant will be.” 
          22      Therefore David said to Ittai, “Go and pass over.” So Ittai the Gittite passed over with all his men and all the little ones who were with him. 
          23      While all the country was weeping with a loud voice, all the people passed over. The king also passed over the brook Kidron, and all the people passed over toward the way of the wilderness. 
          24      Now behold, Zadok also came, and all the Levites with him carrying the ark of the covenant of God. And they set down the ark of God, and Abiathar came up until all the people had finished passing from the city. 
          25      The king said to Zadok, “Return the ark of God to the city. If I find favor in the sight of the LORD, then He will bring me back again and show me both it and His habitation. 
          26      “But if He should say thus, ‘I have no delight in you,’ behold, here I am, let Him do to me as seems good to Him.” 
          27      The king said also to Zadok the priest, “Are you not a seer? Return to the city in peace and your two sons with you, your son Ahimaaz and Jonathan the son of Abiathar. 
          28      “See, I am going to wait at the fords of the wilderness until word comes from you to inform me.” 
          29      Therefore Zadok and Abiathar returned the ark of God to Jerusalem and remained there. 
          30      And David went up the ascent of the Mount of Olives, and wept as he went, and his head was covered and he walked barefoot. Then all the people who were with him each covered his head and went up weeping as they went. 
          31      Now someone told David, saying, “Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom.” And David said, “O LORD, I pray, make the counsel of Ahithophel foolishness.” 
          32      It happened as David was coming to the summit, where God was worshiped, that behold, Hushai the Archite met him with his coat torn and dust on his head. 
          33      David said to him, “If you pass over with me, then you will be a burden to me. 
          34      “But if you return to the city, and say to Absalom, ‘I will be your servant, O king; as I have been your father’s servant in time past, so I will now be your servant,’ then you can thwart the counsel of Ahithophel for me. 
          35      “Are not Zadok and Abiathar the priests with you there? So it shall be that whatever you hear from the king’s house, you shall report to Zadok and Abiathar the priests. 
          36      “Behold their two sons are with them there, Ahimaaz, Zadok’s son and Jonathan, Abiathar’s son; and by them you shall send me everything that you hear.” 
          37      So Hushai, David’s friend, came into the city, and Absalom came into Jerusalem. 




Chapter 16


Ziba, a False Servant

          1      Now when David had passed a little beyond the summit, behold, Ziba the servant of Mephibosheth met him with a couple of saddled donkeys, and on them were two hundred loaves of bread, a hundred clusters of raisins, a hundred summer fruits, and a jug of wine. 
          2      The king said to Ziba, “Why do you have these?” And Ziba said, “The donkeys are for the king’s household to ride, and the bread and summer fruit for the young men to eat, and the wine, for whoever is faint in the wilderness to drink.” 
          3      Then the king said, “And where is your master’s son?” And Ziba said to the king, “Behold, he is staying in Jerusalem, for he said, ‘Today the house of Israel will restore the kingdom of my father to me.’ ” 
          4      So the king said to Ziba, “Behold, all that belongs to Mephibosheth is yours.” And Ziba said, “I prostrate myself; let me find favor in your sight, O my lord, the king!” 

David Is Cursed

          5      When King David came to Bahurim, behold, there came out from there a man of the family of the house of Saul whose name was Shimei, the son of Gera; he came out cursing continually as he came. 
          6      He threw stones at David and at all the servants of King David; and all the people and all the mighty men were at his right hand and at his left. 
          7      Thus Shimei said when he cursed, “Get out, get out, you man of bloodshed, and worthless fellow! 
          8      “The LORD has returned upon you all the bloodshed of the house of Saul, in whose place you have reigned; and the LORD has given the kingdom into the hand of your son Absalom. And behold, you are taken in your own evil, for you are a man of bloodshed!” 
          9      Then Abishai the son of Zeruiah said to the king, “Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? Let me go over now and cut off his head.” 
          10      But the king said, “What have I to do with you, O sons of Zeruiah? If he curses, and if the LORD has told him, ‘Curse David,’ then who shall say, ‘Why have you done so?’ ” 
          11      Then David said to Abishai and to all his servants, “Behold, my son who came out from me seeks my life; how much more now this Benjamite? Let him alone and let him curse, for the LORD has told him. 
          12      “Perhaps the LORD will look on my affliction and return good to me instead of his cursing this day.” 
          13      So David and his men went on the way; and Shimei went along on the hillside parallel with him and as he went he cursed and cast stones and threw dust at him. 
          14      The king and all the people who were with him arrived weary and he refreshed himself there. 

Absalom Enters Jerusalem

          15      Then Absalom and all the people, the men of Israel, entered Jerusalem, and Ahithophel with him. 
          16      Now it came about when Hushai the Archite, David’s friend, came to Absalom, that Hushai said to Absalom, “Long live the king! Long live the king!” 
          17      Absalom said to Hushai, “Is this your loyalty to your friend? Why did you not go with your friend?” 
          18      Then Hushai said to Absalom, “No! For whom the LORD, this people, and all the men of Israel have chosen, his I will be, and with him I will remain. 
          19      “Besides, whom should I serve? Should I not serve in the presence of his son? As I have served in your father’s presence, so I will be in your presence.” 
          20      Then Absalom said to Ahithophel, “Give your advice. What shall we do?” 
          21      Ahithophel said to Absalom, “Go in to your father’s concubines, whom he has left to keep the house; then all Israel will hear that you have made yourself odious to your father. The hands of all who are with you will also be strengthened.” 
          22      So they pitched a tent for Absalom on the roof, and Absalom went in to his father’s concubines in the sight of all Israel. 
          23      The advice of Ahithophel, which he gave in those days, was as if one inquired of the word of God; so was all the advice of Ahithophel regarded by both David and Absalom. 




Chapter 17


Hushai’s Counsel

          1      Furthermore, Ahithophel said to Absalom, “Please let me choose 12,000 men that I may arise and pursue David tonight. 
          2      “I will come upon him while he is weary and exhausted and terrify him, so that all the people who are with him will flee. Then I will strike down the king alone, 
          3      and I will bring back all the people to you. The return of everyone depends on the man you seek; then all the people will be at peace.” 
          4      So the plan pleased Absalom and all the elders of Israel. 
          5      Then Absalom said, “Now call Hushai the Archite also, and let us hear what he has to say.” 
          6      When Hushai had come to Absalom, Absalom said to him, “Ahithophel has spoken thus. Shall we carry out his plan? If not, you speak.” 
          7      So Hushai said to Absalom, “This time the advice that Ahithophel has given is not good.” 
          8      Moreover, Hushai said, “You know your father and his men, that they are mighty men and they are fierce, like a bear robbed of her cubs in the field. And your father is an expert in warfare, and will not spend the night with the people. 
          9      “Behold, he has now hidden himself in one of the caves or in another place; and it will be when he falls on them at the first attack, that whoever hears it will say, ‘There has been a slaughter among the people who follow Absalom.’ 
          10      “And even the one who is valiant, whose heart is like the heart of a lion, will completely lose heart; for all Israel knows that your father is a mighty man and those who are with him are valiant men. 
          11      “But I counsel that all Israel be surely gathered to you, from Dan even to Beersheba, as the sand that is by the sea in abundance, and that you personally go into battle. 
          12      “So we shall come to him in one of the places where he can be found, and we will fall on him as the dew falls on the ground; and of him and of all the men who are with him, not even one will be left. 
          13      “If he withdraws into a city, then all Israel shall bring ropes to that city, and we will drag it into the valley until not even a small stone is found there.” 
          14      Then Absalom and all the men of Israel said, “The counsel of Hushai the Archite is better than the counsel of Ahithophel.” For the LORD had ordained to thwart the good counsel of Ahithophel, so that the LORD might bring calamity on Absalom. 

Hushai’s Warning Saves David

          15      Then Hushai said to Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, “This is what Ahithophel counseled Absalom and the elders of Israel, and this is what I have counseled. 
          16      “Now therefore, send quickly and tell David, saying, ‘Do not spend the night at the fords of the wilderness, but by all means cross over, or else the king and all the people who are with him will be destroyed.’ ” 
          17      Now Jonathan and Ahimaaz were staying at En-rogel, and a maidservant would go and tell them, and they would go and tell King David, for they could not be seen entering the city. 
          18      But a lad did see them and told Absalom; so the two of them departed quickly and came to the house of a man in Bahurim, who had a well in his courtyard, and they went down into it. 
          19      And the woman took a covering and spread it over the well’s mouth and scattered grain on it, so that nothing was known. 
          20      Then Absalom’s servants came to the woman at the house and said, “Where are Ahimaaz and Jonathan?” And the woman said to them, “They have crossed the brook of water.” And when they searched and could not find them, they returned to Jerusalem. 
          21      It came about after they had departed that they came up out of the well and went and told King David; and they said to David, “Arise and cross over the water quickly for thus Ahithophel has counseled against you.” 
          22      Then David and all the people who were with him arose and crossed the Jordan; and by dawn not even one remained who had not crossed the Jordan. 
          23      Now when Ahithophel saw that his counsel was not followed, he saddled his donkey and arose and went to his home, to his city, and set his house in order, and strangled himself; thus he died and was buried in the grave of his father. 
          24      Then David came to Mahanaim. And Absalom crossed the Jordan, he and all the men of Israel with him. 
          25      Absalom set Amasa over the army in place of Joab. Now Amasa was the son of a man whose name was Ithra the Israelite, who went in to Abigail the daughter of Nahash, sister of Zeruiah, Joab’s mother. 
          26      And Israel and Absalom camped in the land of Gilead. 
          27      Now when David had come to Mahanaim, Shobi the son of Nahash from Rabbah of the sons of Ammon, Machir the son of Ammiel from Lo-debar, and Barzillai the Gileadite from Rogelim, 
          28      brought beds, basins, pottery, wheat, barley, flour, parched grain, beans, lentils, parched seeds, 
          29      honey, curds, sheep, and cheese of the herd, for David and for the people who were with him, to eat; for they said, “The people are hungry and weary and thirsty in the wilderness.” 




Chapter 18


Absalom Slain

          1      Then David numbered the people who were with him and set over them commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds. 
          2      David sent the people out, one third under the command of Joab, one third under the command of Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab’s brother, and one third under the command of Ittai the Gittite. And the king said to the people, “I myself will surely go out with you also.” 
          3      But the people said, “You should not go out; for if we indeed flee, they will not care about us; even if half of us die, they will not care about us. But you are worth ten thousand of us; therefore now it is better that you be ready to help us from the city.” 
          4      Then the king said to them, “Whatever seems best to you I will do.” So the king stood beside the gate, and all the people went out by hundreds and thousands. 
          5      The king charged Joab and Abishai and Ittai, saying, “Deal gently for my sake with the young man Absalom.” And all the people heard when the king charged all the commanders concerning Absalom. 
          6      Then the people went out into the field against Israel, and the battle took place in the forest of Ephraim. 
          7      The people of Israel were defeated there before the servants of David, and the slaughter there that day was great, 20,000 men. 
          8      For the battle there was spread over the whole countryside, and the forest devoured more people that day than the sword devoured. 
          9      Now Absalom happened to meet the servants of David. For Absalom was riding on his mule, and the mule went under the thick branches of a great oak. And his head caught fast in the oak, so he was left hanging between heaven and earth, while the mule that was under him kept going. 
          10      When a certain man saw it, he told Joab and said, “Behold, I saw Absalom hanging in an oak.” 
          11      Then Joab said to the man who had told him, “Now behold, you saw him! Why then did you not strike him there to the ground? And I would have given you ten pieces of silver and a belt.” 
          12      The man said to Joab, “Even if I should receive a thousand pieces of silver in my hand, I would not put out my hand against the king’s son; for in our hearing the king charged you and Abishai and Ittai, saying, ‘Protect for me the young man Absalom!’ 
          13      “Otherwise, if I had dealt treacherously against his life (and there is nothing hidden from the king), then you yourself would have stood aloof.” 
          14      Then Joab said, “I will not waste time here with you.” So he took three spears in his hand and thrust them through the heart of Absalom while he was yet alive in the midst of the oak. 
          15      And ten young men who carried Joab’s armor gathered around and struck Absalom and killed him. 
          16      Then Joab blew the trumpet, and the people returned from pursuing Israel, for Joab restrained the people. 
          17      They took Absalom and cast him into a deep pit in the forest and erected over him a very great heap of stones. And all Israel fled, each to his tent. 
          18      Now Absalom in his lifetime had taken and set up for himself a pillar which is in the King’s Valley, for he said, “I have no son to preserve my name.” So he named the pillar after his own name, and it is called Absalom’s Monument to this day. 

David Is Grief-stricken

          19      Then Ahimaaz the son of Zadok said, “Please let me run and bring the king news that the LORD has freed him from the hand of his enemies.” 
          20      But Joab said to him, “You are not the man to carry news this day, but you shall carry news another day; however, you shall carry no news today because the king’s son is dead.” 
          21      Then Joab said to the Cushite, “Go, tell the king what you have seen.” So the Cushite bowed to Joab and ran. 
          22      Now Ahimaaz the son of Zadok said once more to Joab, “But whatever happens, please let me also run after the Cushite.” And Joab said, “Why would you run, my son, since you will have no reward for going?” 
          23      “But whatever happens,” he said, “I will run.” So he said to him, “Run.” Then Ahimaaz ran by way of the plain and passed up the Cushite. 
          24      Now David was sitting between the two gates; and the watchman went up to the roof of the gate by the wall, and raised his eyes and looked, and behold, a man running by himself. 
          25      The watchman called and told the king. And the king said, “If he is by himself there is good news in his mouth.” And he came nearer and nearer. 
          26      Then the watchman saw another man running; and the watchman called to the gatekeeper and said, “Behold, another man running by himself.” And the king said, “This one also is bringing good news.” 
          27      The watchman said, “I think the running of the first one is like the running of Ahimaaz the son of Zadok.” And the king said, “This is a good man and comes with good news.” 
          28      Ahimaaz called and said to the king, “All is well.” And he prostrated himself before the king with his face to the ground. And he said, “Blessed is the LORD your God, who has delivered up the men who lifted their hands against my lord the king.” 
          29      The king said, “Is it well with the young man Absalom?” And Ahimaaz answered, “When Joab sent the king’s servant, and your servant, I saw a great tumult, but I did not know what it was.” 
          30      Then the king said, “Turn aside and stand here.” So he turned aside and stood still. 
          31      Behold, the Cushite arrived, and the Cushite said, “Let my lord the king receive good news, for the LORD has freed you this day from the hand of all those who rose up against you.” 
          32      Then the king said to the Cushite, “Is it well with the young man Absalom?” And the Cushite answered, “Let the enemies of my lord the king, and all who rise up against you for evil, be as that young man!” 
          33      The king was deeply moved and went up to the chamber over the gate and wept. And thus he said as he walked, “O my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom! Would I had died instead of you, O Absalom, my son, my son!” 




Chapter 19


Joab Reproves David’s Lament

          1      Then it was told Joab, “Behold, the king is weeping and mourns for Absalom.” 
          2      The victory that day was turned to mourning for all the people, for the people heard it said that day, “The king is grieved for his son.” 
          3      So the people went by stealth into the city that day, as people who are humiliated steal away when they flee in battle. 
          4      The king covered his face and cried out with a loud voice, “O my son Absalom, O Absalom, my son, my son!” 
          5      Then Joab came into the house to the king and said, “Today you have covered with shame the faces of all your servants, who today have saved your life and the lives of your sons and daughters, the lives of your wives, and the lives of your concubines, 
          6      by loving those who hate you, and by hating those who love you. For you have shown today that princes and servants are nothing to you; for I know this day that if Absalom were alive and all of us were dead today, then you would be pleased. 
          7      “Now therefore arise, go out and speak kindly to your servants, for I swear by the LORD, if you do not go out, surely not a man will pass the night with you, and this will be worse for you than all the evil that has come upon you from your youth until now.” 

David Restored as King

          8      So the king arose and sat in the gate. When they told all the people, saying, “Behold, the king is sitting in the gate,” then all the people came before the king. 
    Now Israel had fled, each to his tent. 
          9      All the people were quarreling throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, “The king delivered us from the hand of our enemies and saved us from the hand of the Philistines, but now he has fled out of the land from Absalom. 
          10      “However, Absalom, whom we anointed over us, has died in battle. Now then, why are you silent about bringing the king back?” 
          11      Then King David sent to Zadok and Abiathar the priests, saying, “Speak to the elders of Judah, saying, ‘Why are you the last to bring the king back to his house, since the word of all Israel has come to the king, even to his house? 
          12      ‘You are my brothers; you are my bone and my flesh. Why then should you be the last to bring back the king?’ 
          13      “Say to Amasa, ‘Are you not my bone and my flesh? May God do so to me, and more also, if you will not be commander of the army before me continually in place of Joab.’ ” 
          14      Thus he turned the hearts of all the men of Judah as one man, so that they sent word to the king, saying, “Return, you and all your servants.” 
          15      The king then returned and came as far as the Jordan. And Judah came to Gilgal in order to go to meet the king, to bring the king across the Jordan. 
          16      Then Shimei the son of Gera, the Benjamite who was from Bahurim, hurried and came down with the men of Judah to meet King David. 
          17      There were a thousand men of Benjamin with him, with Ziba the servant of the house of Saul, and his fifteen sons and his twenty servants with him; and they rushed to the Jordan before the king. 
          18      Then they kept crossing the ford to bring over the king’s household, and to do what was good in his sight. And Shimei the son of Gera fell down before the king as he was about to cross the Jordan. 
          19      So he said to the king, “Let not my lord consider me guilty, nor remember what your servant did wrong on the day when my lord the king came out from Jerusalem, so that the king would take it to heart. 
          20      “For your servant knows that I have sinned; therefore behold, I have come today, the first of all the house of Joseph to go down to meet my lord the king.” 
          21      But Abishai the son of Zeruiah said, “Should not Shimei be put to death for this, because he cursed the LORD’S anointed?” 
          22      David then said, “What have I to do with you, O sons of Zeruiah, that you should this day be an adversary to me? Should any man be put to death in Israel today? For do I not know that I am king over Israel today?” 
          23      The king said to Shimei, “You shall not die.” Thus the king swore to him. 
          24      Then Mephibosheth the son of Saul came down to meet the king; and he had neither cared for his feet, nor trimmed his mustache, nor washed his clothes, from the day the king departed until the day he came home in peace. 
          25      It was when he came from Jerusalem to meet the king, that the king said to him, “Why did you not go with me, Mephibosheth?” 
          26      So he answered, “O my lord, the king, my servant deceived me; for your servant said, ‘I will saddle a donkey for myself that I may ride on it and go with the king,’ because your servant is lame. 
          27      “Moreover, he has slandered your servant to my lord the king; but my lord the king is like the angel of God, therefore do what is good in your sight. 
          28      “For all my father’s household was nothing but dead men before my lord the king; yet you set your servant among those who ate at your own table. What right do I have yet that I should complain anymore to the king?” 
          29      So the king said to him, “Why do you still speak of your affairs? I have decided, ‘You and Ziba shall divide the land.’ ” 
          30      Mephibosheth said to the king, “Let him even take it all, since my lord the king has come safely to his own house.” 
          31      Now Barzillai the Gileadite had come down from Rogelim; and he went on to the Jordan with the king to escort him over the Jordan. 
          32      Now Barzillai was very old, being eighty years old; and he had sustained the king while he stayed at Mahanaim, for he was a very great man. 
          33      The king said to Barzillai, “You cross over with me and I will sustain you in Jerusalem with me.” 
          34      But Barzillai said to the king, “How long have I yet to live, that I should go up with the king to Jerusalem? 
          35      “I am now eighty years old. Can I distinguish between good and bad? Or can your servant taste what I eat or what I drink? Or can I hear anymore the voice of singing men and women? Why then should your servant be an added burden to my lord the king? 
          36      “Your servant would merely cross over the Jordan with the king. Why should the king compensate me with this reward? 
          37      “Please let your servant return, that I may die in my own city near the grave of my father and my mother. However, here is your servant Chimham, let him cross over with my lord the king, and do for him what is good in your sight.” 
          38      The king answered, “Chimham shall cross over with me, and I will do for him what is good in your sight; and whatever you require of me, I will do for you.” 
          39      All the people crossed over the Jordan and the king crossed too. The king then kissed Barzillai and blessed him, and he returned to his place. 
          40      Now the king went on to Gilgal, and Chimham went on with him; and all the people of Judah and also half the people of Israel accompanied the king. 
          41      And behold, all the men of Israel came to the king and said to the king, “Why had our brothers the men of Judah stolen you away, and brought the king and his household and all David’s men with him over the Jordan?” 
          42      Then all the men of Judah answered the men of Israel, “Because the king is a close relative to us. Why then are you angry about this matter? Have we eaten at all at the king’s expense, or has anything been taken for us?” 
          43      But the men of Israel answered the men of Judah and said, “We have ten parts in the king, therefore we also have more claim on David than you. Why then did you treat us with contempt? Was it not our advice first to bring back our king?” Yet the words of the men of Judah were harsher than the words of the men of Israel. 




Chapter 20


Sheba’s Revolt

          1      Now a worthless fellow happened to be there whose name was Sheba, the son of Bichri, a Benjamite; and he blew the trumpet and said, 
         “We have no portion in David, 
         Nor do we have inheritance in the son of Jesse; 
         Every man to his tents, O Israel!” 
          2      So all the men of Israel withdrew from following David and followed Sheba the son of Bichri; but the men of Judah remained steadfast to their king, from the Jordan even to Jerusalem. 
          3      Then David came to his house at Jerusalem, and the king took the ten women, the concubines whom he had left to keep the house, and placed them under guard and provided them with sustenance, but did not go in to them. So they were shut up until the day of their death, living as widows. 
          4      Then the king said to Amasa, “Call out the men of Judah for me within three days, and be present here yourself.” 
          5      So Amasa went to call out the men of Judah, but he delayed longer than the set time which he had appointed him. 
          6      And David said to Abishai, “Now Sheba the son of Bichri will do us more harm than Absalom; take your lord’s servants and pursue him, so that he does not find for himself fortified cities and escape from our sight.” 
          7      So Joab’s men went out after him, along with the Cherethites and the Pelethites and all the mighty men; and they went out from Jerusalem to pursue Sheba the son of Bichri. 
          8      When they were at the large stone which is in Gibeon, Amasa came to meet them. Now Joab was dressed in his military attire, and over it was a belt with a sword in its sheath fastened at his waist; and as he went forward, it fell out. 
          9      Joab said to Amasa, “Is it well with you, my brother?” And Joab took Amasa by the beard with his right hand to kiss him. 

Amasa Murdered

          10      But Amasa was not on guard against the sword which was in Joab’s hand so he struck him in the belly with it and poured out his inward parts on the ground, and did not strike him again, and he died. Then Joab and Abishai his brother pursued Sheba the son of Bichri. 
          11      Now there stood by him one of Joab’s young men, and said, “Whoever favors Joab and whoever is for David, let him follow Joab.” 
          12      But Amasa lay wallowing in his blood in the middle of the highway. And when the man saw that all the people stood still, he removed Amasa from the highway into the field and threw a garment over him when he saw that everyone who came by him stood still. 

Revolt Put Down

          13      As soon as he was removed from the highway, all the men passed on after Joab to pursue Sheba the son of Bichri. 
          14      Now he went through all the tribes of Israel to Abel, even Beth-maacah, and all the Berites; and they were gathered together and also went after him. 
          15      They came and besieged him in Abel Beth-maacah, and they cast up a siege ramp against the city, and it stood by the rampart; and all the people who were with Joab were wreaking destruction in order to topple the wall. 
          16      Then a wise woman called from the city, “Hear, hear! Please tell Joab, ‘Come here that I may speak with you.’ ” 
          17      So he approached her, and the woman said, “Are you Joab?” And he answered, “I am.” Then she said to him, “Listen to the words of your maidservant.” And he answered, “I am listening.” 
          18      Then she spoke, saying, “Formerly they used to say, ‘They will surely ask advice at Abel,’ and thus they ended the dispute. 
          19      “I am of those who are peaceable and faithful in Israel. You are seeking to destroy a city, even a mother in Israel. Why would you swallow up the inheritance of the LORD?” 
          20      Joab replied, “Far be it, far be it from me that I should swallow up or destroy! 
          21      “Such is not the case. But a man from the hill country of Ephraim, Sheba the son of Bichri by name, has lifted up his hand against King David. Only hand him over, and I will depart from the city.” And the woman said to Joab, “Behold, his head will be thrown to you over the wall.” 
          22      Then the woman wisely came to all the people. And they cut off the head of Sheba the son of Bichri and threw it to Joab. So he blew the trumpet, and they were dispersed from the city, each to his tent. Joab also returned to the king at Jerusalem. 
          23      Now Joab was over the whole army of Israel, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; 
          24      and Adoram was over the forced labor, and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was the recorder; 
          25      and Sheva was scribe, and Zadok and Abiathar were priests; 
          26      and Ira the Jairite was also a priest to David. 




Chapter 21


Gibeonite Revenge

          1      Now there was a famine in the days of David for three years, year after year; and David sought the presence of the LORD. And the LORD said, “It is for Saul and his bloody house, because he put the Gibeonites to death.” 
          2      So the king called the Gibeonites and spoke to them (now the Gibeonites were not of the sons of Israel but of the remnant of the Amorites, and the sons of Israel made a covenant with them, but Saul had sought to kill them in his zeal for the sons of Israel and Judah). 
          3      Thus David said to the Gibeonites, “What should I do for you? And how can I make atonement that you may bless the inheritance of the LORD?” 
          4      Then the Gibeonites said to him, “We have no concern of silver or gold with Saul or his house, nor is it for us to put any man to death in Israel.” And he said, “I will do for you whatever you say.” 
          5      So they said to the king, “The man who consumed us and who planned to exterminate us from remaining within any border of Israel, 
          6      let seven men from his sons be given to us, and we will hang them before the LORD in Gibeah of Saul, the chosen of the LORD.” And the king said, “I will give them.” 
          7      But the king spared Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan the son of Saul, because of the oath of the LORD which was between them, between David and Saul’s son Jonathan. 
          8      So the king took the two sons of Rizpah the daughter of Aiah, Armoni and Mephibosheth whom she had borne to Saul, and the five sons of Merab the daughter of Saul, whom she had borne to Adriel the son of Barzillai the Meholathite. 
          9      Then he gave them into the hands of the Gibeonites, and they hanged them in the mountain before the LORD, so that the seven of them fell together; and they were put to death in the first days of harvest at the beginning of barley harvest. 
          10      And Rizpah the daughter of Aiah took sackcloth and spread it for herself on the rock, from the beginning of harvest until it rained on them from the sky; and she allowed neither the birds of the sky to rest on them by day nor the beasts of the field by night. 
          11      When it was told David what Rizpah the daughter of Aiah, the concubine of Saul, had done, 
          12      then David went and took the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan his son from the men of Jabesh-gilead, who had stolen them from the open square of Beth-shan, where the Philistines had hanged them on the day the Philistines struck down Saul in Gilboa. 
          13      He brought up the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan his son from there, and they gathered the bones of those who had been hanged. 
          14      They buried the bones of Saul and Jonathan his son in the country of Benjamin in Zela, in the grave of Kish his father; thus they did all that the king commanded, and after that God was moved by prayer for the land. 
          15      Now when the Philistines were at war again with Israel, David went down and his servants with him; and as they fought against the Philistines, David became weary. 
          16      Then Ishbi-benob, who was among the descendants of the giant, the weight of whose spear was three hundred shekels of bronze in weight, was girded with a new sword, and he intended to kill David. 
          17      But Abishai the son of Zeruiah helped him, and struck the Philistine and killed him. Then the men of David swore to him, saying, “You shall not go out again with us to battle, so that you do not extinguish the lamp of Israel.” 
          18      Now it came about after this that there was war again with the Philistines at Gob; then Sibbecai the Hushathite struck down Saph, who was among the descendants of the giant. 
          19      There was war with the Philistines again at Gob, and Elhanan the son of Jaare-oregim the Bethlehemite killed Goliath the Gittite, the shaft of whose spear was like a weaver’s beam. 
          20      There was war at Gath again, where there was a man of great stature who had six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot, twenty-four in number; and he also had been born to the giant. 
          21      When he defied Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimei, David’s brother, struck him down. 
          22      These four were born to the giant in Gath, and they fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants. 




Chapter 22


David’s Psalm of Deliverance

          1      And David spoke the words of this song to the LORD in the day that the LORD delivered him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul. 
          2      He said, 
         “The LORD is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer; 
               3      My God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, 
         My shield and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold and my refuge; 
         My savior, You save me from violence. 
               4      “I call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised, 
         And I am saved from my enemies. 
               5      “For the waves of death encompassed me; 
         The torrents of destruction overwhelmed me; 
               6      The cords of Sheol surrounded me; 
         The snares of death confronted me. 
               7      “In my distress I called upon the LORD, 
         Yes, I cried to my God; 
         And from His temple He heard my voice, 
         And my cry for help came into His ears. 
               8      “Then the earth shook and quaked, 
         The foundations of heaven were trembling 
         And were shaken, because He was angry. 
               9      “Smoke went up out of His nostrils, 
         Fire from His mouth devoured; 
         Coals were kindled by it. 
               10      “He bowed the heavens also, and came down 
         With thick darkness under His feet. 
               11      “And He rode on a cherub and flew; 
         And He appeared on the wings of the wind. 
               12      “And He made darkness canopies around Him, 
         A mass of waters, thick clouds of the sky. 
               13      “From the brightness before Him 
         Coals of fire were kindled. 
               14      “The LORD thundered from heaven, 
         And the Most High uttered His voice. 
               15      “And He sent out arrows, and scattered them, 
         Lightning, and routed them. 
               16      “Then the channels of the sea appeared, 
         The foundations of the world were laid bare 
         By the rebuke of the LORD, 
         At the blast of the breath of His nostrils. 
               17      “He sent from on high, He took me; 
         He drew me out of many waters. 
               18      “He delivered me from my strong enemy, 
         From those who hated me, for they were too strong for me. 
               19      “They confronted me in the day of my calamity, 
         But the LORD was my support. 
               20      “He also brought me forth into a broad place; 
         He rescued me, because He delighted in me. 
               21      “The LORD has rewarded me according to my righteousness; 
         According to the cleanness of my hands He has recompensed me. 
               22      “For I have kept the ways of the LORD, 
         And have not acted wickedly against my God. 
               23      “For all His ordinances were before me, 
         And as for His statutes, I did not depart from them. 
               24      “I was also blameless toward Him, 
         And I kept myself from my iniquity. 
               25      “Therefore the LORD has recompensed me according to my righteousness, 
         According to my cleanness before His eyes. 
               26      “With the kind You show Yourself kind, 
         With the blameless You show Yourself blameless; 
               27      With the pure You show Yourself pure, 
         And with the perverted You show Yourself astute. 
               28      “And You save an afflicted people; 
         But Your eyes are on the haughty whom You abase. 
               29      “For You are my lamp, O LORD; 
         And the LORD illumines my darkness. 
               30      “For by You I can run upon a troop; 
         By my God I can leap over a wall. 
               31      “As for God, His way is blameless; 
         The word of the LORD is tested; 
         He is a shield to all who take refuge in Him. 
               32      “For who is God, besides the LORD? 
         And who is a rock, besides our God? 
               33      “God is my strong fortress; 
         And He sets the blameless in His way. 
               34      “He makes my feet like hinds’ feet, 
         And sets me on my high places. 
               35      “He trains my hands for battle, 
         So that my arms can bend a bow of bronze. 
               36      “You have also given me the shield of Your salvation, 
         And Your help makes me great. 
               37      “You enlarge my steps under me, 
         And my feet have not slipped. 
               38      “I pursued my enemies and destroyed them, 
         And I did not turn back until they were consumed. 
               39      “And I have devoured them and shattered them, so that they did not rise; 
         And they fell under my feet. 
               40      “For You have girded me with strength for battle; 
         You have subdued under me those who rose up against me. 
               41      “You have also made my enemies turn their backs to me, 
         And I destroyed those who hated me. 
               42      “They looked, but there was none to save; 
         Even to the LORD, but He did not answer them. 
               43      “Then I pulverized them as the dust of the earth; 
         I crushed and stamped them as the mire of the streets. 
               44      “You have also delivered me from the contentions of my people; 
         You have kept me as head of the nations; 
         A people whom I have not known serve me. 
               45      “Foreigners pretend obedience to me; 
         As soon as they hear, they obey me. 
               46      “Foreigners lose heart, 
         And come trembling out of their fortresses. 
               47      “The LORD lives, and blessed be my rock; 
         And exalted be God, the rock of my salvation, 
               48      The God who executes vengeance for me, 
         And brings down peoples under me, 
               49      Who also brings me out from my enemies; 
         You even lift me above those who rise up against me; 
         You rescue me from the violent man. 
               50      “Therefore I will give thanks to You, O LORD, among the nations, 
         And I will sing praises to Your name. 
               51      “He is a tower of deliverance to His king, 
         And shows lovingkindness to His anointed, 
         To David and his descendants forever.” 




Chapter 23


David’s Last Song

          1      Now these are the last words of David. 
         David the son of Jesse declares, 
         The man who was raised on high declares, 
         The anointed of the God of Jacob, 
         And the sweet psalmist of Israel, 
               2      “The Spirit of the LORD spoke by me, 
         And His word was on my tongue. 
               3      “The God of Israel said, 
         The Rock of Israel spoke to me, 
         ‘He who rules over men righteously, 
         Who rules in the fear of God, 
               4      Is as the light of the morning when the sun rises, 
         A morning without clouds, 
         When the tender grass springs out of the earth, 
         Through sunshine after rain.’ 
               5      “Truly is not my house so with God? 
         For He has made an everlasting covenant with me, 
         Ordered in all things, and secured; 
         For all my salvation and all my desire, 
         Will He not indeed make it grow? 
               6      “But the worthless, every one of them will be thrust away like thorns, 
         Because they cannot be taken in hand; 
               7      But the man who touches them 
         Must be armed with iron and the shaft of a spear, 
         And they will be completely burned with fire in their place.” 

His Mighty Men

          8      These are the names of the mighty men whom David had: Josheb-basshebeth a Tahchemonite, chief of the captains, he was called Adino the Eznite, because of eight hundred slain by him at one time; 
          9      and after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo the Ahohite, one of the three mighty men with David when they defied the Philistines who were gathered there to battle and the men of Israel had withdrawn. 
          10      He arose and struck the Philistines until his hand was weary and clung to the sword, and the LORD brought about a great victory that day; and the people returned after him only to strip the slain. 
          11      Now after him was Shammah the son of Agee a Hararite. And the Philistines were gathered into a troop where there was a plot of ground full of lentils, and the people fled from the Philistines. 
          12      But he took his stand in the midst of the plot, defended it and struck the Philistines; and the LORD brought about a great victory. 
          13      Then three of the thirty chief men went down and came to David in the harvest time to the cave of Adullam, while the troop of the Philistines was camping in the valley of Rephaim. 
          14      David was then in the stronghold, while the garrison of the Philistines was then in Bethlehem. 
          15      David had a craving and said, “Oh that someone would give me water to drink from the well of Bethlehem which is by the gate!” 
          16      So the three mighty men broke through the camp of the Philistines, and drew water from the well of Bethlehem which was by the gate, and took it and brought it to David. Nevertheless he would not drink it, but poured it out to the LORD; 
          17      and he said, “Be it far from me, O LORD, that I should do this. Shall I drink the blood of the men who went in jeopardy of their lives?” Therefore he would not drink it. These things the three mighty men did. 
          18      Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was chief of the thirty. And he swung his spear against three hundred and killed them, and had a name as well as the three. 
          19      He was most honored of the thirty, therefore he became their commander; however, he did not attain to the three. 
          20      Then Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man of Kabzeel, who had done mighty deeds, killed the two sons of Ariel of Moab. He also went down and killed a lion in the middle of a pit on a snowy day. 
          21      He killed an Egyptian, an impressive man. Now the Egyptian had a spear in his hand, but he went down to him with a club and snatched the spear from the Egyptian’s hand and killed him with his own spear. 
          22      These things Benaiah the son of Jehoiada did, and had a name as well as the three mighty men. 
          23      He was honored among the thirty, but he did not attain to the three. And David appointed him over his guard. 
          24      Asahel the brother of Joab was among the thirty; Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem, 
          25      Shammah the Harodite, Elika the Harodite, 
          26      Helez the Paltite, Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, 
          27      Abiezer the Anathothite, Mebunnai the Hushathite, 
          28      Zalmon the Ahohite, Maharai the Netophathite, 
          29      Heleb the son of Baanah the Netophathite, Ittai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the sons of Benjamin, 
          30      Benaiah a Pirathonite, Hiddai of the brooks of Gaash, 
          31      Abi-albon the Arbathite, Azmaveth the Barhumite, 
          32      Eliahba the Shaalbonite, the sons of Jashen, Jonathan, 
          33      Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam the son of Sharar the Ararite, 
          34      Eliphelet the son of Ahasbai, the son of the Maacathite, Eliam the son of Ahithophel the Gilonite, 
          35      Hezro the Carmelite, Paarai the Arbite, 
          36      Igal the son of Nathan of Zobah, Bani the Gadite, 
          37      Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Beerothite, armor bearers of Joab the son of Zeruiah, 
          38      Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite, 
          39      Uriah the Hittite; thirty-seven in all. 




Chapter 24


The Census Taken

          1      Now again the anger of the LORD burned against Israel, and it incited David against them to say, “Go, number Israel and Judah.” 
          2      The king said to Joab the commander of the army who was with him, “Go about now through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan to Beersheba, and register the people, that I may know the number of the people.” 
          3      But Joab said to the king, “Now may the LORD your God add to the people a hundred times as many as they are, while the eyes of my lord the king still see; but why does my lord the king delight in this thing?” 
          4      Nevertheless, the king’s word prevailed against Joab and against the commanders of the army. So Joab and the commanders of the army went out from the presence of the king to register the people of Israel. 
          5      They crossed the Jordan and camped in Aroer, on the right side of the city that is in the middle of the valley of Gad and toward Jazer. 
          6      Then they came to Gilead and to the land of Tahtim-hodshi, and they came to Dan-jaan and around to Sidon, 
          7      and came to the fortress of Tyre and to all the cities of the Hivites and of the Canaanites, and they went out to the south of Judah, to Beersheba. 
          8      So when they had gone about through the whole land, they came to Jerusalem at the end of nine months and twenty days. 
          9      And Joab gave the number of the registration of the people to the king; and there were in Israel eight hundred thousand valiant men who drew the sword, and the men of Judah were five hundred thousand men. 
          10      Now David’s heart troubled him after he had numbered the people. So David said to the LORD, “I have sinned greatly in what I have done. But now, O LORD, please take away the iniquity of Your servant, for I have acted very foolishly.” 
          11      When David arose in the morning, the word of the LORD came to the prophet Gad, David’s seer, saying, 
          12      “Go and speak to David, ‘Thus the LORD says, “I am offering you three things; choose for yourself one of them, which I will do to you.” ’ ” 
          13      So Gad came to David and told him, and said to him, “Shall seven years of famine come to you in your land? Or will you flee three months before your foes while they pursue you? Or shall there be three days’ pestilence in your land? Now consider and see what answer I shall return to Him who sent me.” 
          14      Then David said to Gad, “I am in great distress. Let us now fall into the hand of the LORD for His mercies are great, but do not let me fall into the hand of man.” 

Pestilence Sent

          15      So the LORD sent a pestilence upon Israel from the morning until the appointed time, and seventy thousand men of the people from Dan to Beersheba died. 
          16      When the angel stretched out his hand toward Jerusalem to destroy it, the LORD relented from the calamity and said to the angel who destroyed the people, “It is enough! Now relax your hand!” And the angel of the LORD was by the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite. 
          17      Then David spoke to the LORD when he saw the angel who was striking down the people, and said, “Behold, it is I who have sinned, and it is I who have done wrong; but these sheep, what have they done? Please let Your hand be against me and against my father’s house.” 

David Builds an Altar

          18      So Gad came to David that day and said to him, “Go up, erect an altar to the LORD on the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite.” 
          19      David went up according to the word of Gad, just as the LORD had commanded. 
          20      Araunah looked down and saw the king and his servants crossing over toward him; and Araunah went out and bowed his face to the ground before the king. 
          21      Then Araunah said, “Why has my lord the king come to his servant?” And David said, “To buy the threshing floor from you, in order to build an altar to the LORD, that the plague may be held back from the people.” 
          22      Araunah said to David, “Let my lord the king take and offer up what is good in his sight. Look, the oxen for the burnt offering, the threshing sledges and the yokes of the oxen for the wood. 
          23      “Everything, O king, Araunah gives to the king.” And Araunah said to the king, “May the LORD your God accept you.” 
          24      However, the king said to Araunah, “No, but I will surely buy it from you for a price, for I will not offer burnt offerings to the LORD my God which cost me nothing.” So David bought the threshing floor and the oxen for fifty shekels of silver. 
          25      David built there an altar to the LORD and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. Thus the LORD was moved by prayer for the land, and the plague was held back from Israel. 


New American Standard Bible: 1995 update (1995). La Habra, CA: The Lockman Foundation.


Exported from Logos Bible Study, 15:54 14 September 2026.



