








The First Book of the
KINGS




Chapter 1


David in Old Age

          1      Now King David was old, advanced in age; and they covered him with clothes, but he could not keep warm. 
          2      So his servants said to him, “Let them seek a young virgin for my lord the king, and let her attend the king and become his nurse; and let her lie in your bosom, that my lord the king may keep warm.” 
          3      So they searched for a beautiful girl throughout all the territory of Israel, and found Abishag the Shunammite, and brought her to the king. 
          4      The girl was very beautiful; and she became the king’s nurse and served him, but the king did not cohabit with her. 
          5      Now Adonijah the son of Haggith exalted himself, saying, “I will be king.” So he prepared for himself chariots and horsemen with fifty men to run before him. 
          6      His father had never crossed him at any time by asking, “Why have you done so?” And he was also a very handsome man, and he was born after Absalom. 
          7      He had conferred (davar) with Joab the son of Zeruiah and with Abiathar the priest; and following Adonijah they helped him. 
          8      But Zadok the priest, Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, Nathan the prophet, Shimei, Rei, and the mighty men who belonged to David, were not with Adonijah. 
          9      Adonijah sacrificed sheep and oxen and fatlings by the stone of Zoheleth, which is beside En-rogel; and he invited all his brothers, the king’s sons, and all the men of Judah, the king’s servants. 
          10      But he did not invite Nathan the prophet, Benaiah, the mighty men, and Solomon his brother. 

Nathan and Bathsheba

          11      Then Nathan spoke to Bathsheba the mother of Solomon, saying, “Have you not heard that Adonijah the son of Haggith has become king, and David our lord does not know it? 
          12      “So now come, please let me give you counsel and save your life and the life of your son Solomon. 
          13      “Go at once to King David and say to him, ‘Have you not, my lord, O king, sworn to your maidservant, saying, “Surely Solomon your son shall be king after me, and he shall sit on my throne”? Why then has Adonijah become king?’ 
          14      “Behold, while you are still there speaking with the king, I will come in after you and confirm your words (davar).” 
          15      So Bathsheba went in to the king in the bedroom. Now the king was very old, and Abishag the Shunammite was ministering to the king. 
          16      Then Bathsheba bowed and prostrated herself before the king. And the king said, “What do you wish?” 
          17      She said to him, “My lord, you swore to your maidservant by the LORD your God, saying, ‘Surely your son Solomon shall be king after me and he shall sit on my throne.’ 
          18      “Now, behold, Adonijah is king; and now, my lord the king, you do not know it. 
          19      “He has sacrificed oxen and fatlings and sheep in abundance, and has invited all the sons of the king and Abiathar the priest and Joab the commander of the army, but he has not invited Solomon your servant. 
          20      “As for you now, my lord the king, the eyes of all Israel are on you, to tell them who shall sit on the throne of my lord the king after him. 
          21      “Otherwise it will come about, as soon as my lord the king sleeps with his fathers, that I and my son Solomon will be considered offenders.” 
          22      Behold, while she was still speaking with the king, Nathan the prophet came in. 
          23      They told the king, saying, “Here is Nathan the prophet.” And when he came in before the king, he prostrated himself before the king with his face to the ground (erets). 
          24      Then Nathan said, “My lord the king, have you said, ‘Adonijah shall be king after me, and he shall sit on my throne’? 
          25      “For he has gone down today and has sacrificed oxen and fatlings and sheep in abundance, and has invited all the king’s sons and the commanders of the army and Abiathar the priest, and behold, they are eating and drinking before him; and they say, ‘Long live King Adonijah!’ 
          26      “But me, even me your servant, and Zadok the priest and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada and your servant Solomon, he has not invited. 
          27      “Has this thing (davar) been done by my lord the king, and you have not shown to your servants who should sit on the throne of my lord the king after him?” 
          28      Then King David said, “Call Bathsheba to me.” And she came into the king’s presence and stood before the king. 
          29      The king vowed and said, “As the LORD lives, who has redeemed my life from all distress, 
          30      surely as I vowed to you by the LORD the God of Israel, saying, ‘Your son Solomon shall be king after me, and he shall sit on my throne in my place’; I will indeed do so this day.” 
          31      Then Bathsheba bowed with her face to the ground (erets), and prostrated herself before the king and said, “May my lord King David live forever.” 
          32      Then King David said, “Call to me Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada.” And they came into the king’s presence. 
          33      The king said to them, “Take with you the servants of your lord, and have my son Solomon ride on my own mule, and bring him down to Gihon. 
          34      “Let Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet anoint him there as king over Israel, and blow the trumpet and say, ‘Long live King Solomon!’ 
          35      “Then you shall come up after him, and he shall come and sit on my throne and be king in my place; for I have appointed him to be ruler over Israel and Judah.” 
          36      Benaiah the son of Jehoiada answered the king and said, “Amen! Thus may the LORD, the God of my lord the king, say. 
          37      “As the LORD has been with my lord the king, so may He be with Solomon, and make his throne greater than the throne of my lord King David!” 

Solomon Anointed King

          38      So Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the Cherethites, and the Pelethites went down and had Solomon ride on King David’s mule, and brought him to Gihon. 
          39      Zadok the priest then took the horn of oil from the tent and anointed Solomon. Then they blew the trumpet, and all the people said, “Long live King Solomon!” 
          40      All the people went up after him, and the people were playing on flutes and rejoicing with great joy, so that the earth (erets) shook at their noise. 
          41      Now Adonijah and all the guests who were with him heard it as they finished eating. When Joab heard the sound of the trumpet, he said, “Why is the city making such an uproar?” 
          42      While he was still speaking, behold, Jonathan the son of Abiathar the priest came. Then Adonijah said, “Come in, for you are a valiant man and bring good news.” 
          43      But Jonathan replied to Adonijah, “No! Our lord King David has made Solomon king. 
          44      “The king has also sent with him Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the Cherethites, and the Pelethites; and they have made him ride on the king’s mule. 
          45      “Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him king in Gihon, and they have come up from there rejoicing, so that the city is in an uproar. This is the noise which you have heard. 
          46      “Besides, Solomon has even taken his seat on the throne of the kingdom. 
          47      “Moreover, the king’s servants came to bless our lord King David, saying, ‘May your God make the name of Solomon better than your name and his throne greater than your throne!’ And the king bowed himself on the bed. 
          48      “The king has also said thus, ‘Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, who has granted one to sit on my throne today while my own eyes see it.’ ” 
          49      Then all the guests of Adonijah were terrified; and they arose and each went on his way. 
          50      And Adonijah was afraid of Solomon, and he arose, went and took hold of the horns of the altar. 
          51      Now it was told Solomon, saying, “Behold, Adonijah is afraid of King Solomon, for behold, he has taken hold of the horns of the altar, saying, ‘Let King Solomon swear to me today that he will not put his servant to death with the sword.’ ” 
          52      Solomon said, “If he is a worthy man, not one of his hairs will fall to the ground (erets); but if wickedness is found in him, he will die.” 
          53      So King Solomon sent, and they brought him down from the altar. And he came and prostrated himself before King Solomon, and Solomon said to him, “Go to your house.” 




Chapter 2


David’s Charge to Solomon

          1      As David’s time to die drew near, he charged Solomon his son, saying, 
          2      “I am going the way of all the earth (erets). Be strong, therefore, and show yourself a man. 
          3      “Keep the charge of the LORD your God, to walk in His ways, to keep His statutes, His commandments (mitsvah), His ordinances (mishphat), and His testimonies (eduth), according to what is written in the Law (torah) of Moses, that you may succeed in all that you do and wherever you turn, 
          4      so that the LORD may carry out His promise (davar) which He spoke concerning me, saying, ‘If your sons are careful of their way, to walk before Me in truth with all their heart and with all their soul, you shall not lack a man on the throne of Israel.’ 
          5      “Now you also know what Joab the son of Zeruiah did to me, what he did to the two commanders of the armies of Israel, to Abner the son of Ner, and to Amasa the son of Jether, whom he killed; he also shed the blood of war in peace. And he put the blood of war on his belt about his waist, and on his sandals on his feet. 
          6      “So act according to your wisdom, and do not let his gray hair go down to Sheol in peace. 
          7      “But show kindness to the sons of Barzillai the Gileadite, and let them be among those who eat at your table; for they assisted me when I fled from Absalom your brother. 
          8      “Behold, there is with you Shimei the son of Gera the Benjamite, of Bahurim; now it was he who cursed me with a violent curse on the day I went to Mahanaim. But when he came down to me at the Jordan, I swore to him by the LORD, saying, ‘I will not put you to death with the sword.’ 
          9      “Now therefore, do not let him go unpunished, for you are a wise man; and you will know what you ought to do to him, and you will bring his gray hair down to Sheol with blood.” 

Death of David

          10      Then David slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David. 
          11      The days that David reigned over Israel were forty years: seven years he reigned in Hebron and thirty-three years he reigned in Jerusalem. 
          12      And Solomon sat on the throne of David his father, and his kingdom was firmly established. 
          13      Now Adonijah the son of Haggith came to Bathsheba the mother of Solomon. And she said, “Do you come peacefully?” And he said, “Peacefully.” 
          14      Then he said, “I have something (davar) to say to you.” And she said, “Speak.” 
          15      So he said, “You know that the kingdom was mine and that all Israel expected me to be king; however, the kingdom has turned about and become my brother’s, for it was his from the LORD. 
          16      “Now I am making one request of you; do not refuse me.” And she said to him, “Speak.” 
          17      Then he said, “Please speak to Solomon the king, for he will not refuse you, that he may give me Abishag the Shunammite as a wife.” 
          18      Bathsheba said, “Very well; I will speak to the king for you.” 

Adonijah Executed

          19      So Bathsheba went to King Solomon to speak to him for Adonijah. And the king arose to meet her, bowed before her, and sat on his throne; then he had a throne set for the king’s mother, and she sat on his right. 
          20      Then she said, “I am making one small request of you; do not refuse me.” And the king said to her, “Ask, my mother, for I will not refuse you.” 
          21      So she said, “Let Abishag the Shunammite be given to Adonijah your brother as a wife.” 
          22      King Solomon answered and said to his mother, “And why are you asking Abishag the Shunammite for Adonijah? Ask for him also the kingdom—for he is my older brother—even for him, for Abiathar the priest, and for Joab the son of Zeruiah!” 
          23      Then King Solomon swore by the LORD, saying, “May God do so to me and more also, if Adonijah has not spoken this word (davar) against his own life. 
          24      “Now therefore, as the LORD lives, who has established me and set me on the throne of David my father and who has made me a house as He promised, surely Adonijah shall be put to death today.” 
          25      So King Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada; and he fell upon him so that he died. 
          26      Then to Abiathar the priest the king said, “Go to Anathoth to your own field, for you deserve to die; but I will not put you to death at this time, because you carried the ark of the Lord GOD before my father David, and because you were afflicted in everything with which my father was afflicted.” 
          27      So Solomon dismissed Abiathar from being priest to the LORD, in order to fulfill the word (davar) of the LORD, which He had spoken concerning the house of Eli in Shiloh. 

Joab Executed

          28      Now the news came to Joab, for Joab had followed Adonijah, although he had not followed Absalom. And Joab fled to the tent of the LORD and took hold of the horns of the altar. 
          29      It was told King Solomon that Joab had fled to the tent of the LORD, and behold, he is beside the altar. Then Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, saying, “Go, fall upon him.” 
          30      So Benaiah came to the tent of the LORD and said to him, “Thus the king has said, ‘Come out.’ ” But he said, “No, for I will die here.” And Benaiah brought the king word (davar) again, saying, “Thus spoke Joab, and thus he answered me.” 
          31      The king said to him, “Do as he has spoken and fall upon him and bury him, that you may remove from me and from my father’s house the blood which Joab shed without cause. 
          32      “The LORD will return his blood on his own head, because he fell upon two men more righteous and better than he and killed them with the sword, while my father David did not know it: Abner the son of Ner, commander of the army of Israel, and Amasa the son of Jether, commander of the army of Judah. 
          33      “So shall their blood return on the head of Joab and on the head of his descendants forever; but to David and his descendants and his house and his throne, may there be peace from the LORD forever.” 
          34      Then Benaiah the son of Jehoiada went up and fell upon him and put him to death, and he was buried at his own house in the wilderness. 
          35      The king appointed Benaiah the son of Jehoiada over the army in his place, and the king appointed Zadok the priest in the place of Abiathar. 

Shimei Executed

          36      Now the king sent and called for Shimei and said to him, “Build for yourself a house in Jerusalem and live there, and do not go out from there to any place. 
          37      “For on the day you go out and cross over the brook Kidron, you will know for certain that you shall surely die; your blood shall be on your own head.” 
          38      Shimei then said to the king, “The word (davar) is good. As my lord the king has said, so your servant will do.” So Shimei lived in Jerusalem many days. 
          39      But it came about at the end of three years, that two of the servants of Shimei ran away to Achish son of Maacah, king of Gath. And they told Shimei, saying, “Behold, your servants are in Gath.” 
          40      Then Shimei arose and saddled his donkey, and went to Gath to Achish to look for his servants. And Shimei went and brought his servants from Gath. 
          41      It was told Solomon that Shimei had gone from Jerusalem to Gath, and had returned. 
          42      So the king sent and called for Shimei and said to him, “Did I not make you swear by the LORD and solemnly warn you, saying, ‘You will know for certain that on the day you depart and go anywhere, you shall surely die’? And you said to me, ‘The word (davar) which I have heard is good.’ 
          43      “Why then have you not kept the oath of the LORD, and the command (mitsvah) which I have laid on you?” 
          44      The king also said to Shimei, “You know all the evil which you acknowledge in your heart, which you did to my father David; therefore the LORD shall return your evil on your own head. 
          45      “But King Solomon shall be blessed, and the throne of David shall be established before the LORD forever.” 
          46      So the king commanded Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and he went out and fell upon him so that he died. 
    Thus the kingdom was established in the hands of Solomon. 




Chapter 3


Solomon’s Rule Consolidated

          1      Then Solomon formed a marriage alliance with Pharaoh king of Egypt, and took Pharaoh’s daughter and brought her to the city of David until he had finished building his own house and the house of the LORD and the wall around Jerusalem. 
          2      The people were still sacrificing on the high places, because there was no house built for the name of the LORD until those days. 
          3      Now Solomon loved the LORD, walking in the statutes of his father David, except he sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. 
          4      The king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there, for that was the great high place; Solomon offered a thousand burnt offerings on that altar. 
          5      In Gibeon the LORD appeared to Solomon in a dream at night; and God said, “Ask what you wish me to give you.” 

Solomon’s Prayer

          6      Then Solomon said, “You have shown great lovingkindness to Your servant David my father, according as he walked before You in truth and righteousness and uprightness of heart toward You; and You have reserved for him this great lovingkindness, that You have given him a son to sit on his throne, as it is this day. 
          7      “Now, O LORD my God, You have made Your servant king in place of my father David, yet I am but a little child; I do not know how to go out or come in. 
          8      “Your servant is in the midst of Your people which You have chosen, a great people who are too many to be numbered or counted. 
          9      “So give Your servant an understanding heart to judge Your people to discern between good and evil. For who is able to judge this great people of Yours?” 

God’s Answer

          10      It (davar) was pleasing in the sight of the Lord that Solomon had asked this thing (davar). 
          11      God said to him, “Because you have asked this thing (davar) and have not asked for yourself long life, nor have asked riches for yourself, nor have you asked for the life of your enemies, but have asked for yourself discernment to understand justice (mishphat), 
          12      behold, I have done according to your words (davar). Behold, I have given you a wise and discerning heart, so that there has been no one like you before you, nor shall one like you arise after you. 
          13      “I have also given you what you have not asked, both riches and honor, so that there will not be any among the kings like you all your days. 
          14      “If you walk in My ways, keeping My statutes (hoq) and commandments (mitsvah), as your father David walked, then I will prolong your days.” 
          15      Then Solomon awoke, and behold, it was a dream. And he came to Jerusalem and stood before the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and offered burnt offerings and made peace offerings, and made a feast for all his servants. 

Solomon Wisely Judges

          16      Then two women who were harlots came to the king and stood before him. 
          17      The one woman said, “Oh, my lord, this woman and I live in the same house; and I gave birth to a child while she was in the house. 
          18      “It happened on the third day after I gave birth, that this woman also gave birth to a child, and we were together. There was no stranger with us in the house, only the two of us in the house. 
          19      “This woman’s son died in the night, because she lay on it. 
          20      “So she arose in the middle of the night and took my son from beside me while your maidservant slept, and laid him in her bosom, and laid her dead son in my bosom. 
          21      “When I rose in the morning to nurse my son, behold, he was dead; but when I looked at him carefully in the morning, behold, he was not my son, whom I had borne.” 
          22      Then the other woman said, “No! For the living one is my son, and the dead one is your son.” But the first woman said, “No! For the dead one is your son, and the living one is my son.” Thus they spoke before the king. 
          23      Then the king said, “The one says, ‘This is my son who is living, and your son is the dead one’; and the other says, ‘No! For your son is the dead one, and my son is the living one.’ ” 
          24      The king said, “Get me a sword.” So they brought a sword before the king. 
          25      The king said, “Divide the living child in two, and give half to the one and half to the other.” 
          26      Then the woman whose child was the living one spoke to the king, for she was deeply stirred over her son and said, “Oh, my lord, give her the living child, and by no means kill him.” But the other said, “He shall be neither mine nor yours; divide him!” 
          27      Then the king said, “Give the first woman the living child, and by no means kill him. She is his mother.” 
          28      When all Israel heard of the judgment (mishphat) which the king had handed down, they feared the king, for they saw that the wisdom of God was in him to administer justice (mishphat). 




Chapter 4


Solomon’s Officials

          1      Now King Solomon was king over all Israel. 
          2      These were his officials: Azariah the son of Zadok was the priest; 
          3      Elihoreph and Ahijah, the sons of Shisha were secretaries; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was the recorder; 
          4      and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the army; and Zadok and Abiathar were priests; 
          5      and Azariah the son of Nathan was over the deputies; and Zabud the son of Nathan, a priest, was the king’s friend; 
          6      and Ahishar was over the household; and Adoniram the son of Abda was over the men subject to forced labor. 
          7      Solomon had twelve deputies over all Israel, who provided for the king and his household; each man had to provide for a month in the year. 
          8      These are their names: Ben-hur, in the hill country of Ephraim; 
          9      Ben-deker in Makaz and Shaalbim and Beth-shemesh and Elonbeth-hanan; 
          10      Ben-hesed, in Arubboth (Socoh was his and all the land (erets) of Hepher); 
          11      Ben-abinadab, in all the height of Dor (Taphath the daughter of Solomon was his wife); 
          12      Baana the son of Ahilud, in Taanach and Megiddo, and all Beth-shean which is beside Zarethan below Jezreel, from Beth-shean to Abel-meholah as far as the other side of Jokmeam; 
          13      Ben-geber, in Ramoth-gilead (the towns of Jair, the son of Manasseh, which are in Gilead were his: the region of Argob, which is in Bashan, sixty great cities with walls and bronze bars were his); 
          14      Ahinadab the son of Iddo, in Mahanaim; 
          15      Ahimaaz, in Naphtali (he also married Basemath the daughter of Solomon); 
          16      Baana the son of Hushai, in Asher and Bealoth; 
          17      Jehoshaphat the son of Paruah, in Issachar; 
          18      Shimei the son of Ela, in Benjamin; 
          19      Geber the son of Uri, in the land (erets) of Gilead, the country (erets) of Sihon king of the Amorites and of Og king of Bashan; and he was the only deputy who was in the land (erets). 

Solomon’s Power, Wealth and Wisdom

          20      Judah and Israel were as numerous as the sand that is on the seashore in abundance; they were eating and drinking and rejoicing. 
          21      Now Solomon ruled over all the kingdoms from the River to the land (erets) of the Philistines and to the border of Egypt; they brought tribute and served Solomon all the days of his life. 
          22      Solomon’s provision for one day was thirty kors of fine flour and sixty kors of meal, 
          23      ten fat oxen, twenty pasture-fed oxen, a hundred sheep besides deer, gazelles, roebucks, and fattened fowl. 
          24      For he had dominion over everything west of the River, from Tiphsah even to Gaza, over all the kings west of the River; and he had peace on all sides around about him. 
          25      So Judah and Israel lived in safety, every man under his vine and his fig tree, from Dan even to Beersheba, all the days of Solomon. 
          26      Solomon had 40,000 stalls of horses for his chariots, and 12,000 horsemen. 
          27      Those deputies provided for King Solomon and all who came to King Solomon’s table, each in his month; they left nothing (davar) lacking. 
          28      They also brought barley and straw for the horses and swift steeds to the place where it should be, each according to his charge (mishphat). 
          29      Now God gave Solomon wisdom and very great discernment and breadth of mind, like the sand that is on the seashore. 
          30      Solomon’s wisdom surpassed the wisdom of all the sons of the east and all the wisdom of Egypt. 
          31      For he was wiser than all men (adam), than Ethan the Ezrahite, Heman, Calcol and Darda, the sons of Mahol; and his fame was known in all the surrounding nations. 
          32      He also spoke 3,000 proverbs, and his songs were 1,005. 
          33      He spoke of trees, from the cedar that is in Lebanon even to the hyssop that grows on the wall; he spoke also of animals and birds and creeping things and fish. 
          34      Men came from all peoples to hear the wisdom of Solomon, from all the kings of the earth (erets) who had heard of his wisdom. 




Chapter 5


Alliance with King Hiram

          1      Now Hiram king of Tyre sent his servants to Solomon, when he heard that they had anointed him king in place of his father, for Hiram had always been a friend of David. 
          2      Then Solomon sent word to Hiram, saying, 
          3      “You know that David my father was unable to build a house for the name of the LORD his God because of the wars which surrounded him, until the LORD put them under the soles of his feet. 
          4      “But now the LORD my God has given me rest on every side; there is neither adversary nor misfortune. 
          5      “Behold, I intend to build a house for the name of the LORD my God, as the LORD spoke to David my father, saying, ‘Your son, whom I will set on your throne in your place, he will build the house for My name.’ 
          6      “Now therefore, command that they cut for me cedars from Lebanon, and my servants will be with your servants; and I will give you wages for your servants according to all that you say, for you know that there is no one among us who knows how to cut timber like the Sidonians.” 
          7      When Hiram heard the words (davar) of Solomon, he rejoiced greatly and said, “Blessed be the LORD today, who has given to David a wise son over this great people.” 
          8      So Hiram sent word to Solomon, saying, “I have heard the message which you have sent me; I will do what you desire concerning the cedar and cypress timber. 
          9      “My servants will bring them down from Lebanon to the sea; and I will make them into rafts to go by sea to the place where you direct me, and I will have them broken up there, and you shall carry them away. Then you shall accomplish my desire by giving food to my household.” 
          10      So Hiram gave Solomon as much as he desired of the cedar and cypress timber. 
          11      Solomon then gave Hiram 20,000 kors of wheat as food for his household, and twenty kors of beaten oil; thus Solomon would give Hiram year by year. 
          12      The LORD gave wisdom to Solomon, just as He promised him; and there was peace between Hiram and Solomon, and the two of them made a covenant. 

Conscription of Laborers

          13      Now King Solomon levied forced laborers from all Israel; and the forced laborers numbered 30,000 men. 
          14      He sent them to Lebanon, 10,000 a month in relays; they were in Lebanon a month and two months at home. And Adoniram was over the forced laborers. 
          15      Now Solomon had 70,000 transporters, and 80,000 hewers of stone in the mountains, 
          16      besides Solomon’s 3,300 chief deputies who were over the project and who ruled over the people who were doing the work. 
          17      Then the king commanded, and they quarried great stones, costly stones, to lay the foundation of the house with cut stones. 
          18      So Solomon’s builders and Hiram’s builders and the Gebalites cut them, and prepared the timbers and the stones to build the house. 




Chapter 6


The Building of the Temple

          1      Now it came about in the four hundred and eightieth year after the sons of Israel came out of the land (erets) of Egypt, in the fourth year of Solomon’s reign over Israel, in the month of Ziv which is the second month, that he began to build the house of the LORD. 
          2      As for the house which King Solomon built for the LORD, its length was sixty cubits and its width twenty cubits and its height thirty cubits. 
          3      The porch in front of the nave of the house was twenty cubits in length, corresponding to the width of the house, and its depth along the front of the house was ten cubits. 
          4      Also for the house he made windows with artistic frames. 
          5      Against the wall of the house he built stories encompassing the walls of the house around both the nave and the inner sanctuary; thus he made side chambers all around. 
          6      The lowest story was five cubits wide, and the middle was six cubits wide, and the third was seven cubits wide; for on the outside he made offsets in the wall of the house all around in order that the beams would not be inserted in the walls of the house. 
          7      The house, while it was being built, was built of stone prepared at the quarry, and there was neither hammer nor axe nor any iron tool heard in the house while it was being built. 
          8      The doorway for the lowest side chamber was on the right side of the house; and they would go up by winding stairs to the middle story, and from the middle to the third. 
          9      So he built the house and finished it; and he covered the house with beams and planks of cedar. 
          10      He also built the stories against the whole house, each five cubits high; and they were fastened to the house with timbers of cedar. 
          11      Now the word (davar) of the LORD came to Solomon saying, 
          12      “Concerning this house which you are building, if you will walk in My statutes and execute My ordinances (mishphat) and keep all My commandments (mitsvah) by walking in them, then I will carry out My word (davar) with you which I spoke to David your father. 
          13      “I will dwell among the sons of Israel, and will not forsake My people Israel.” 
          14      So Solomon built the house and finished it. 
          15      Then he built the walls of the house on the inside with boards of cedar; from the floor of the house to the ceiling he overlaid the walls on the inside with wood, and he overlaid the floor of the house with boards of cypress. 
          16      He built twenty cubits on the rear part of the house with boards of cedar from the floor to the ceiling; he built them for it on the inside as an inner sanctuary, even as the most holy place. 
          17      The house, that is, the nave in front of the inner sanctuary, was forty cubits long. 
          18      There was cedar on the house within, carved in the shape of gourds and open flowers; all was cedar, there was no stone seen. 
          19      Then he prepared an inner sanctuary within the house in order to place there the ark of the covenant of the LORD. 
          20      The inner sanctuary was twenty cubits in length, twenty cubits in width, and twenty cubits in height, and he overlaid it with pure gold. He also overlaid the altar with cedar. 
          21      So Solomon overlaid the inside of the house with pure gold. And he drew chains of gold across the front of the inner sanctuary, and he overlaid it with gold. 
          22      He overlaid the whole house with gold, until all the house was finished. Also the whole altar which was by the inner sanctuary he overlaid with gold. 
          23      Also in the inner sanctuary he made two cherubim of olive wood, each ten cubits high. 
          24      Five cubits was the one wing of the cherub and five cubits the other wing of the cherub; from the end of one wing to the end of the other wing were ten cubits. 
          25      The other cherub was ten cubits; both the cherubim were of the same measure and the same form. 
          26      The height of the one cherub was ten cubits, and so was the other cherub. 
          27      He placed the cherubim in the midst of the inner house, and the wings of the cherubim were spread out, so that the wing of the one was touching the one wall, and the wing of the other cherub was touching the other wall. So their wings were touching each other in the center of the house. 
          28      He also overlaid the cherubim with gold. 
          29      Then he carved all the walls of the house round about with carved engravings of cherubim, palm trees, and open flowers, inner and outer sanctuaries. 
          30      He overlaid the floor of the house with gold, inner and outer sanctuaries. 
          31      For the entrance of the inner sanctuary he made doors of olive wood, the lintel and five-sided doorposts. 
          32      So he made two doors of olive wood, and he carved on them carvings of cherubim, palm trees, and open flowers, and overlaid them with gold; and he spread the gold on the cherubim and on the palm trees. 
          33      So also he made for the entrance of the nave four-sided doorposts of olive wood 
          34      and two doors of cypress wood; the two leaves of the one door turned on pivots, and the two leaves of the other door turned on pivots. 
          35      He carved on it cherubim, palm trees, and open flowers; and he overlaid them with gold evenly applied on the engraved work. 
          36      He built the inner court with three rows of cut stone and a row of cedar beams. 
          37      In the fourth year the foundation of the house of the LORD was laid, in the month of Ziv. 
          38      In the eleventh year, in the month of Bul, which is the eighth month, the house was finished throughout all its parts (davar) and according to all its plans (mishphat). So he was seven years in building it. 




Chapter 7


Solomon’s Palace

          1      Now Solomon was building his own house thirteen years, and he finished all his house. 
          2      He built the house of the forest of Lebanon; its length was 100 cubits and its width 50 cubits and its height 30 cubits, on four rows of cedar pillars with cedar beams on the pillars. 
          3      It was paneled with cedar above the side chambers which were on the 45 pillars, 15 in each row. 
          4      There were artistic window frames in three rows, and window was opposite window in three ranks. 
          5      All the doorways and doorposts had squared artistic frames, and window was opposite window in three ranks. 
          6      Then he made the hall of pillars; its length was 50 cubits and its width 30 cubits, and a porch was in front of them and pillars and a threshold in front of them. 
          7      He made the hall of the throne where he was to judge, the hall of judgment (mishphat), and it was paneled with cedar from floor to floor. 
          8      His house where he was to live, the other court inward from the hall, was of the same workmanship. He also made a house like this hall for Pharaoh’s daughter, whom Solomon had married. 
          9      All these were of costly stones, of stone cut according to measure, sawed with saws, inside and outside; even from the foundation to the coping, and so on the outside to the great court. 
          10      The foundation was of costly stones, even large stones, stones of ten cubits and stones of eight cubits. 
          11      And above were costly stones, stone cut according to measure, and cedar. 
          12      So the great court all around had three rows of cut stone and a row of cedar beams even as the inner court of the house of the LORD, and the porch of the house. 

Hiram’s Work in the Temple

          13      Now King Solomon sent and brought Hiram from Tyre. 
          14      He was a widow’s son from the tribe of Naphtali, and his father was a man of Tyre, a worker in bronze; and he was filled with wisdom and understanding and skill for doing any work in bronze. So he came to King Solomon and performed all his work. 
          15      He fashioned the two pillars of bronze; eighteen cubits was the height of one pillar, and a line of twelve cubits measured the circumference of both. 
          16      He also made two capitals of molten bronze to set on the tops of the pillars; the height of the one capital was five cubits and the height of the other capital was five cubits. 
          17      There were nets of network and twisted threads of chainwork for the capitals which were on the top of the pillars; seven for the one capital and seven for the other capital. 
          18      So he made the pillars, and two rows around on the one network to cover the capitals which were on the top of the pomegranates; and so he did for the other capital. 
          19      The capitals which were on the top of the pillars in the porch were of lily design, four cubits. 
          20      There were capitals on the two pillars, even above and close to the rounded projection which was beside the network; and the pomegranates numbered two hundred in rows around both capitals. 
          21      Thus he set up the pillars at the porch of the nave; and he set up the right pillar and named it Jachin, and he set up the left pillar and named it Boaz. 
          22      On the top of the pillars was lily design. So the work of the pillars was finished. 
          23      Now he made the sea of cast metal ten cubits from brim to brim, circular in form, and its height was five cubits, and thirty cubits in circumference. 
          24      Under its brim gourds went around encircling it ten to a cubit, completely surrounding the sea; the gourds were in two rows, cast with the rest. 
          25      It stood on twelve oxen, three facing north, three facing west, three facing south, and three facing east; and the sea was set on top of them, and all their rear parts turned inward. 
          26      It was a handbreadth thick, and its brim was made like the brim of a cup, as a lily blossom; it could hold two thousand baths. 
          27      Then he made the ten stands of bronze; the length of each stand was four cubits and its width four cubits and its height three cubits. 
          28      This was the design of the stands: they had borders, even borders between the frames, 
          29      and on the borders which were between the frames were lions, oxen and cherubim; and on the frames there was a pedestal above, and beneath the lions and oxen were wreaths of hanging work. 
          30      Now each stand had four bronze wheels with bronze axles, and its four feet had supports; beneath the basin were cast supports with wreaths at each side. 
          31      Its opening inside the crown at the top was a cubit, and its opening was round like the design of a pedestal, a cubit and a half; and also on its opening there were engravings, and their borders were square, not round. 
          32      The four wheels were underneath the borders, and the axles of the wheels were on the stand. And the height of a wheel was a cubit and a half. 
          33      The workmanship of the wheels was like the workmanship of a chariot wheel. Their axles, their rims, their spokes, and their hubs were all cast. 
          34      Now there were four supports at the four corners of each stand; its supports were part of the stand itself. 
          35      On the top of the stand there was a circular form half a cubit high, and on the top of the stand its stays and its borders were part of it. 
          36      He engraved on the plates of its stays and on its borders, cherubim, lions and palm trees, according to the clear space on each, with wreaths all around. 
          37      He made the ten stands like this: all of them had one casting, one measure and one form. 
          38      He made ten basins of bronze, one basin held forty baths; each basin was four cubits, and on each of the ten stands was one basin. 
          39      Then he set the stands, five on the right side of the house and five on the left side of the house; and he set the sea of cast metal on the right side of the house eastward toward the south. 
          40      Now Hiram made the basins and the shovels and the bowls. So Hiram finished doing all the work which he performed for King Solomon in the house of the LORD: 
          41      the two pillars and the two bowls of the capitals which were on the top of the two pillars, and the two networks to cover the two bowls of the capitals which were on the top of the pillars; 
          42      and the four hundred pomegranates for the two networks, two rows of pomegranates for each network to cover the two bowls of the capitals which were on the tops of the pillars; 
          43      and the ten stands with the ten basins on the stands; 
          44      and the one sea and the twelve oxen under the sea; 
          45      and the pails and the shovels and the bowls; even all these utensils which Hiram made for King Solomon in the house of the LORD were of polished bronze. 
          46      In the plain of the Jordan the king cast them, in the clay ground (adama) between Succoth and Zarethan. 
          47      Solomon left all the utensils unweighed, because they were too many; the weight of the bronze could not be ascertained. 
          48      Solomon made all the furniture which was in the house of the LORD: the golden altar and the golden table on which was the bread of the Presence; 
          49      and the lampstands, five on the right side and five on the left, in front of the inner sanctuary, of pure gold; and the flowers and the lamps and the tongs, of gold; 
          50      and the cups and the snuffers and the bowls and the spoons and the firepans, of pure gold; and the hinges both for the doors of the inner house, the most holy place, and for the doors of the house, that is, of the nave, of gold. 
          51      Thus all the work that King Solomon performed in the house of the LORD was finished. And Solomon brought in the things dedicated by his father David, the silver and the gold and the utensils, and he put them in the treasuries of the house of the LORD. 




Chapter 8


The Ark Brought into the Temple

          1      Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel and all the heads of the tribes, the leaders of the fathers’ households of the sons of Israel, to King Solomon in Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD from the city of David, which is Zion. 
          2      All the men of Israel assembled themselves to King Solomon at the feast, in the month Ethanim, which is the seventh month. 
          3      Then all the elders of Israel came, and the priests took up the ark. 
          4      They brought up the ark of the LORD and the tent of meeting and all the holy utensils, which were in the tent, and the priests and the Levites brought them up. 
          5      And King Solomon and all the congregation of Israel, who were assembled to him, were with him before the ark, sacrificing so many sheep and oxen they could not be counted or numbered. 
          6      Then the priests brought the ark of the covenant of the LORD to its place, into the inner sanctuary of the house, to the most holy place, under the wings of the cherubim. 
          7      For the cherubim spread their wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubim made a covering over the ark and its poles from above. 
          8      But the poles were so long that the ends of the poles could be seen from the holy place before the inner sanctuary, but they could not be seen outside; they are there to this day. 
          9      There was nothing in the ark except the two tablets of stone which Moses put there at Horeb, where the LORD made a covenant with the sons of Israel, when they came out of the land (erets) of Egypt. 
          10      It happened that when the priests came from the holy place, the cloud filled the house of the LORD, 
          11      so that the priests could not stand to minister because of the cloud, for the glory of the LORD filled the house of the LORD. 

Solomon Addresses the People

          12      Then Solomon said, 
         “The LORD has said that He would dwell in the thick cloud. 
               13      “I have surely built You a lofty house, 
         A place for Your dwelling forever.” 
          14      Then the king faced about and blessed all the assembly of Israel, while all the assembly of Israel was standing. 
          15      He said, “Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, who spoke with His mouth to my father David and has fulfilled it with His hand, saying, 
          16      ‘Since the day that I brought My people Israel from Egypt, I did not choose a city out of all the tribes of Israel in which to build a house that My name might be there, but I chose David to be over My people Israel.’ 
          17      “Now it was in the heart of my father David to build a house for the name of the LORD, the God of Israel. 
          18      “But the LORD said to my father David, ‘Because it was in your heart to build a house for My name, you did well that it was in your heart. 
          19      ‘Nevertheless you shall not build the house, but your son who will be born to you, he will build the house for My name.’ 
          20      “Now the LORD has fulfilled His word (davar) which He spoke; for I have risen in place of my father David and sit on the throne of Israel, as the LORD promised, and have built the house for the name of the LORD, the God of Israel. 
          21      “There I have set a place for the ark, in which is the covenant of the LORD, which He made with our fathers when He brought them from the land (erets) of Egypt.” 

The Prayer of Dedication

          22      Then Solomon stood before the altar of the LORD in the presence of all the assembly of Israel and spread out his hands toward heaven. 
          23      He said, “O LORD, the God of Israel, there is no God like You in heaven above or on earth (erets) beneath, keeping covenant and showing lovingkindness to Your servants who walk before You with all their heart, 
          24      who have kept with Your servant, my father David, that which You have promised him; indeed, You have spoken with Your mouth and have fulfilled it with Your hand as it is this day. 
          25      “Now therefore, O LORD, the God of Israel, keep with Your servant David my father that which You have promised him, saying, ‘You shall not lack a man to sit on the throne of Israel, if only your sons take heed to their way to walk before Me as you have walked.’ 
          26      “Now therefore, O God of Israel, let Your word (davar), I pray, be confirmed which You have spoken to Your servant, my father David. 
          27      “But will God indeed dwell on the earth (erets)? Behold, heaven and the highest heaven cannot contain You, how much less this house which I have built! 
          28      “Yet have regard to the prayer of Your servant and to his supplication, O LORD my God, to listen to the cry and to the prayer which Your servant prays before You today; 
          29      that Your eyes may be open toward this house night and day, toward the place of which You have said, ‘My name shall be there,’ to listen to the prayer which Your servant shall pray toward this place. 
          30      “Listen to the supplication of Your servant and of Your people Israel, when they pray toward this place; hear in heaven Your dwelling place; hear and forgive. 
          31      “If a man sins against his neighbor and is made to take an oath, and he comes and takes an oath before Your altar in this house, 
          32      then hear in heaven and act and judge Your servants, condemning the wicked by bringing his way on his own head and justifying the righteous by giving him according to his righteousness. 
          33      “When Your people Israel are defeated before an enemy, because they have sinned against You, if they turn to You again and confess Your name and pray and make supplication to You in this house, 
          34      then hear in heaven, and forgive the sin of Your people Israel, and bring them back to the land (adama) which You gave to their fathers. 
          35      “When the heavens are shut up and there is no rain, because they have sinned against You, and they pray toward this place and confess Your name and turn from their sin when You afflict them, 
          36      then hear in heaven and forgive the sin of Your servants and of Your people Israel, indeed, teach them the good way in which they should walk. And send rain on Your land (erets), which You have given Your people for an inheritance. 
          37      “If there is famine in the land (erets), if there is pestilence, if there is blight or mildew, locust or grasshopper, if their enemy besieges them in the land (erets) of their cities, whatever plague, whatever sickness there is, 
          38      whatever prayer or supplication is made by any man (adam) or by all Your people Israel, each knowing the affliction of his own heart, and spreading his hands toward this house; 
          39      then hear in heaven Your dwelling place, and forgive and act and render to each according to all his ways, whose heart You know, for You alone know the hearts of all the sons of men (adam), 
          40      that they may fear You all the days that they live in the land (adama) which You have given to our fathers. 
          41      “Also concerning the foreigner who is not of Your people Israel, when he comes from a far country (erets) for Your name’s sake 
          42      (for they will hear of Your great name and Your mighty hand, and of Your outstretched arm); when he comes and prays toward this house, 
          43      hear in heaven Your dwelling place, and do according to all for which the foreigner calls to You, in order that all the peoples of the earth (erets) may know Your name, to fear You, as do Your people Israel, and that they may know that this house which I have built is called by Your name. 
          44      “When Your people go out to battle against their enemy, by whatever way You shall send them, and they pray to the LORD toward the city which You have chosen and the house which I have built for Your name, 
          45      then hear in heaven their prayer and their supplication, and maintain their cause (mishphat). 
          46      “When they sin against You (for there is no man (adam) who does not sin) and You are angry with them and deliver them to an enemy, so that they take them away captive to the land (erets) of the enemy, far off or near; 
          47      if they take thought in the land (erets) where they have been taken captive, and repent and make supplication to You in the land (erets) of those who have taken them captive, saying, ‘We have sinned and have committed iniquity, we have acted wickedly’; 
          48      if they return to You with all their heart and with all their soul in the land (erets) of their enemies who have taken them captive, and pray to You toward their land (erets) which You have given to their fathers, the city which You have chosen, and the house which I have built for Your name; 
          49      then hear their prayer and their supplication in heaven Your dwelling place, and maintain their cause (mishphat), 
          50      and forgive Your people who have sinned against You and all their transgressions which they have transgressed against You, and make them objects of compassion before those who have taken them captive, that they may have compassion on them 
          51      (for they are Your people and Your inheritance which You have brought forth from Egypt, from the midst of the iron furnace), 
          52      that Your eyes may be open to the supplication of Your servant and to the supplication of Your people Israel, to listen to them whenever they call to You. 
          53      “For You have separated them from all the peoples of the earth (erets) as Your inheritance, as You spoke through Moses Your servant, when You brought our fathers forth from Egypt, O Lord GOD.” 

Solomon’s Benediction

          54      When Solomon had finished praying this entire prayer and supplication to the LORD, he arose from before the altar of the LORD, from kneeling on his knees with his hands spread toward heaven. 
          55      And he stood and blessed all the assembly of Israel with a loud voice, saying: 
          56      “Blessed be the LORD, who has given rest to His people Israel, according to all that He promised; not one word (davar) has failed of all His good promise (davar), which He promised through Moses His servant. 
          57      “May the LORD our God be with us, as He was with our fathers; may He not leave us or forsake us, 
          58      that He may incline our hearts to Himself, to walk in all His ways and to keep His commandments (mitsvah) and His statutes (hoq) and His ordinances (mishphat), which He commanded our fathers. 
          59      “And may these words (davar) of mine, with which I have made supplication before the LORD, be near to the LORD our God day and night, that He may maintain the cause (mishphat) of His servant and the cause (mishphat) of His people Israel, as each day requires (davar), 
          60      so that all the peoples of the earth (erets) may know that the LORD is God; there is no one else. 
          61      “Let your heart therefore be wholly devoted to the LORD our God, to walk in His statutes (hoq) and to keep His commandments (mitsvah), as at this day.” 

Dedicatory Sacrifices

          62      Now the king and all Israel with him offered sacrifice before the LORD. 
          63      Solomon offered for the sacrifice of peace offerings, which he offered to the LORD, 22,000 oxen and 120,000 sheep. So the king and all the sons of Israel dedicated the house of the LORD. 
          64      On the same day the king consecrated the middle of the court that was before the house of the LORD, because there he offered the burnt offering and the grain offering and the fat of the peace offerings; for the bronze altar that was before the LORD was too small to hold the burnt offering and the grain offering and the fat of the peace offerings. 
          65      So Solomon observed the feast at that time, and all Israel with him, a great assembly from the entrance of Hamath to the brook of Egypt, before the LORD our God, for seven days and seven more days, even fourteen days. 
          66      On the eighth day he sent the people away and they blessed the king. Then they went to their tents joyful and glad of heart for all the goodness that the LORD had shown to David His servant and to Israel His people. 




Chapter 9


God’s Promise and Warning

          1      Now it came about when Solomon had finished building the house of the LORD, and the king’s house, and all that Solomon desired to do, 
          2      that the LORD appeared to Solomon a second time, as He had appeared to him at Gibeon. 
          3      The LORD said to him, “I have heard your prayer and your supplication, which you have made before Me; I have consecrated this house which you have built by putting My name there forever, and My eyes and My heart will be there perpetually. 
          4      “As for you, if you will walk before Me as your father David walked, in integrity of heart and uprightness, doing according to all that I have commanded you and will keep My statutes (hoq) and My ordinances (mishphat), 
          5      then I will establish the throne of your kingdom over Israel forever, just as I promised to your father David, saying, ‘You shall not lack a man on the throne of Israel.’ 
          6      “But if you or your sons indeed turn away from following Me, and do not keep My commandments (mitsvah) and My statutes which I have set before you, and go and serve other gods and worship them, 
          7      then I will cut off Israel from the land (adama) which I have given them, and the house which I have consecrated for My name, I will cast out of My sight. So Israel will become a proverb and a byword among all peoples. 
          8      “And this house will become a heap of ruins; everyone who passes by will be astonished and hiss and say, ‘Why has the LORD done thus to this land (erets) and to this house?’ 
          9      “And they will say, ‘Because they forsook the LORD their God, who brought their fathers out of the land (erets) of Egypt, and adopted other gods and worshiped them and served them, therefore the LORD has brought all this adversity on them.’ ” 

Cities Given to Hiram

          10      It came about at the end of twenty years in which Solomon had built the two houses, the house of the LORD and the king’s house 
          11      (Hiram king of Tyre had supplied Solomon with cedar and cypress timber and gold according to all his desire), then King Solomon gave Hiram twenty cities in the land (erets) of Galilee. 
          12      So Hiram came out from Tyre to see the cities which Solomon had given him, and they did not please him. 
          13      He said, “What are these cities which you have given me, my brother?” So they were called the land (erets) of Cabul to this day. 
          14      And Hiram sent to the king 120 talents of gold. 
          15      Now this is the account (davar) of the forced labor which King Solomon levied to build the house of the LORD, his own house, the Millo, the wall of Jerusalem, Hazor, Megiddo, and Gezer. 
          16      For Pharaoh king of Egypt had gone up and captured Gezer and burned it with fire, and killed the Canaanites who lived in the city, and had given it as a dowry to his daughter, Solomon’s wife. 
          17      So Solomon rebuilt Gezer and the lower Beth-horon 
          18      and Baalath and Tamar in the wilderness, in the land (erets) of Judah, 
          19      and all the storage cities which Solomon had, even the cities for his chariots and the cities for his horsemen, and all that it pleased Solomon to build in Jerusalem, in Lebanon, and in all the land (erets) under his rule. 
          20      As for all the people who were left of the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites and the Jebusites, who were not of the sons of Israel, 
          21      their descendants who were left after them in the land (erets) whom the sons of Israel were unable to destroy utterly, from them Solomon levied forced laborers, even to this day. 
          22      But Solomon did not make slaves of the sons of Israel; for they were men of war, his servants, his princes, his captains, his chariot commanders, and his horsemen. 
          23      These were the chief officers who were over Solomon’s work, five hundred and fifty, who ruled over the people doing the work. 
          24      As soon as Pharaoh’s daughter came up from the city of David to her house which Solomon had built for her, then he built the Millo. 
          25      Now three times in a year Solomon offered burnt offerings and peace offerings on the altar which he built to the LORD, burning incense with them on the altar which was before the LORD. So he finished the house. 
          26      King Solomon also built a fleet of ships in Ezion-geber, which is near Eloth on the shore of the Red Sea, in the land (erets) of Edom. 
          27      And Hiram sent his servants with the fleet, sailors who knew the sea, along with the servants of Solomon. 
          28      They went to Ophir and took four hundred and twenty talents of gold from there, and brought it to King Solomon. 




Chapter 10


The Queen of Sheba

          1      Now when the queen of Sheba heard about the fame of Solomon concerning the name of the LORD, she came to test him with difficult questions. 
          2      So she came to Jerusalem with a very large retinue, with camels carrying spices and very much gold and precious stones. When she came to Solomon, she spoke with him about all that was in her heart. 
          3      Solomon answered all her questions (davar); nothing (davar) was hidden from the king which he did not explain to her. 
          4      When the queen of Sheba perceived all the wisdom of Solomon, the house that he had built, 
          5      the food of his table, the seating of his servants, the attendance of his waiters and their attire, his cupbearers, and his stairway by which he went up to the house of the LORD, there was no more spirit in her. 
          6      Then she said to the king, “It was a true report (davar) which I heard in my own land (erets) about your words (davar) and your wisdom. 
          7      “Nevertheless I did not believe the reports (davar), until I came and my eyes had seen it. And behold, the half was not told me. You exceed in wisdom and prosperity the report which I heard. 
          8      “How blessed are your men, how blessed are these your servants who stand before you continually and hear your wisdom. 
          9      “Blessed be the LORD your God who delighted in you to set you on the throne of Israel; because the LORD loved Israel forever, therefore He made you king, to do justice (mishphat) and righteousness.” 
          10      She gave the king a hundred and twenty talents of gold, and a very great amount of spices and precious stones. Never again did such abundance of spices come in as that which the queen of Sheba gave King Solomon. 
          11      Also the ships of Hiram, which brought gold from Ophir, brought in from Ophir a very great number of almug trees and precious stones. 
          12      The king made of the almug trees supports for the house of the LORD and for the king’s house, also lyres and harps for the singers; such almug trees have not come in again nor have they been seen to this day. 
          13      King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all her desire which she requested, besides what he gave her according to his royal bounty. Then she turned and went to her own land (erets) together with her servants. 

Wealth, Splendor and Wisdom

          14      Now the weight of gold which came in to Solomon in one year was 666 talents of gold, 
          15      besides that from the traders and the wares of the merchants and all the kings of the Arabs and the governors of the country (erets). 
          16      King Solomon made 200 large shields of beaten gold, using 600 shekels of gold on each large shield. 
          17      He made 300 shields of beaten gold, using three minas of gold on each shield, and the king put them in the house of the forest of Lebanon. 
          18      Moreover, the king made a great throne of ivory and overlaid it with refined gold. 
          19      There were six steps to the throne and a round top to the throne at its rear, and arms on each side of the seat, and two lions standing beside the arms. 
          20      Twelve lions were standing there on the six steps on the one side and on the other; nothing like it was made for any other kingdom. 
          21      All King Solomon’s drinking vessels were of gold, and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold. None was of silver; it was not considered valuable in the days of Solomon. 
          22      For the king had at sea the ships of Tarshish with the ships of Hiram; once every three years the ships of Tarshish came bringing gold and silver, ivory and apes and peacocks. 
          23      So King Solomon became greater than all the kings of the earth (erets) in riches and in wisdom. 
          24      All the earth (erets) was seeking the presence of Solomon, to hear his wisdom which God had put in his heart. 
          25      They brought every man his gift, articles of silver and gold, garments, weapons, spices, horses, and mules,  (davar)so much year by year. 
          26      Now Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen; and he had 1,400 chariots and 12,000 horsemen, and he stationed them in the chariot cities and with the king in Jerusalem. 
          27      The king made silver as common as stones in Jerusalem, and he made cedars as plentiful as sycamore trees that are in the lowland. 
          28      Also Solomon’s import of horses was from Egypt and Kue, and the king’s merchants procured them from Kue for a price. 
          29      A chariot was imported from Egypt for 600 shekels of silver, and a horse for 150; and by the same means they exported them to all the kings of the Hittites and to the kings of the Arameans. 




Chapter 11


Solomon Turns from God

          1      Now King Solomon loved many foreign women along with the daughter of Pharaoh: Moabite, Ammonite, Edomite, Sidonian, and Hittite women, 
          2      from the nations concerning which the LORD had said to the sons of Israel, “You shall not associate with them, nor shall they associate with you, for they will surely turn your heart away after their gods.” Solomon held fast to these in love. 
          3      He had seven hundred wives, princesses, and three hundred concubines, and his wives turned his heart away. 
          4      For when Solomon was old, his wives turned his heart away after other gods; and his heart was not wholly devoted to the LORD his God, as the heart of David his father had been. 
          5      For Solomon went after Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians and after Milcom the detestable idol of the Ammonites. 
          6      Solomon did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, and did not follow the LORD fully, as David his father had done. 
          7      Then Solomon built a high place for Chemosh the detestable idol of Moab, on the mountain which is east of Jerusalem, and for Molech the detestable idol of the sons of Ammon. 
          8      Thus also he did for all his foreign wives, who burned incense and sacrificed to their gods. 
          9      Now the LORD was angry with Solomon because his heart was turned away from the LORD, the God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice, 
          10      and had commanded him concerning this thing (davar), that he should not go after other gods; but he did not observe what the LORD had commanded. 
          11      So the LORD said to Solomon, “Because you have done this, and you have not kept My covenant and My statutes, which I have commanded you, I will surely tear the kingdom from you, and will give it to your servant. 
          12      “Nevertheless I will not do it in your days for the sake of your father David, but I will tear it out of the hand of your son. 
          13      “However, I will not tear away all the kingdom, but I will give one tribe to your son for the sake of My servant David and for the sake of Jerusalem which I have chosen.” 

God Raises Adversaries

          14      Then the LORD raised up an adversary to Solomon, Hadad the Edomite; he was of the royal line in Edom. 
          15      For it came about, when David was in Edom, and Joab the commander of the army had gone up to bury the slain, and had struck down every male in Edom 
          16      (for Joab and all Israel stayed there six months, until he had cut off every male in Edom), 
          17      that Hadad fled to Egypt, he and certain Edomites of his father’s servants with him, while Hadad was a young boy. 
          18      They arose from Midian and came to Paran; and they took men with them from Paran and came to Egypt, to Pharaoh king of Egypt, who gave him a house and assigned him food and gave him land (erets). 
          19      Now Hadad found great favor before Pharaoh, so that he gave him in marriage the sister of his own wife, the sister of Tahpenes the queen. 
          20      The sister of Tahpenes bore his son Genubath, whom Tahpenes weaned in Pharaoh’s house; and Genubath was in Pharaoh’s house among the sons of Pharaoh. 
          21      But when Hadad heard in Egypt that David slept with his fathers and that Joab the commander of the army was dead, Hadad said to Pharaoh, “Send me away, that I may go to my own country (erets).” 
          22      Then Pharaoh said to him, “But what have you lacked with me, that behold, you are seeking to go to your own country (erets)?” And he answered, “Nothing; nevertheless you must surely let me go.” 
          23      God also raised up another adversary to him, Rezon the son of Eliada, who had fled from his lord Hadadezer king of Zobah. 
          24      He gathered men to himself and became leader of a marauding band, after David slew them of Zobah; and they went to Damascus and stayed there, and reigned in Damascus. 
          25      So he was an adversary to Israel all the days of Solomon, along with the evil that Hadad did; and he abhorred Israel and reigned over Aram. 
          26      Then Jeroboam the son of Nebat, an Ephraimite of Zeredah, Solomon’s servant, whose mother’s name was Zeruah, a widow, also rebelled against the king. 
          27      Now this was the reason (davar) why he rebelled against the king: Solomon built the Millo, and closed up the breach of the city of his father David. 
          28      Now the man Jeroboam was a valiant warrior, and when Solomon saw that the young man was industrious, he appointed him over all the forced labor of the house of Joseph. 
          29      It came about at that time, when Jeroboam went out of Jerusalem, that the prophet Ahijah the Shilonite found him on the road. Now Ahijah had clothed himself with a new cloak; and both of them were alone in the field. 
          30      Then Ahijah took hold of the new cloak which was on him and tore it into twelve pieces. 
          31      He said to Jeroboam, “Take for yourself ten pieces; for thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, ‘Behold, I will tear the kingdom out of the hand of Solomon and give you ten tribes 
          32      (but he will have one tribe, for the sake of My servant David and for the sake of Jerusalem, the city which I have chosen from all the tribes of Israel), 
          33      because they have forsaken Me, and have worshiped Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, Chemosh the god of Moab, and Milcom the god of the sons of Ammon; and they have not walked in My ways, doing what is right in My sight and observing My statutes and My ordinances (mishphat), as his father David did. 
          34      ‘Nevertheless I will not take the whole kingdom out of his hand, but I will make him ruler all the days of his life, for the sake of My servant David whom I chose, who observed My commandments (mitsvah) and My statutes; 
          35      but I will take the kingdom from his son’s hand and give it to you, even ten tribes. 
          36      ‘But to his son I will give one tribe, that My servant David may have a lamp always before Me in Jerusalem, the city where I have chosen for Myself to put My name. 
          37      ‘I will take you, and you shall reign over whatever you desire, and you shall be king over Israel. 
          38      ‘Then it will be, that if you listen to all that I command you and walk in My ways, and do what is right in My sight by observing My statutes and My commandments (mitsvah), as My servant David did, then I will be with you and build you an enduring house as I built for David, and I will give Israel to you. 
          39      ‘Thus I will afflict the descendants of David for this, but not always.’ ” 
          40      Solomon sought therefore to put Jeroboam to death; but Jeroboam arose and fled to Egypt to Shishak king of Egypt, and he was in Egypt until the death of Solomon. 

The Death of Solomon

          41      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Solomon and whatever he did, and his wisdom, are they not written in the book of the acts (davar) of Solomon? 
          42      Thus the time that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel was forty years. 
          43      And Solomon slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of his father David, and his son Rehoboam reigned in his place. 




Chapter 12


King Rehoboam Acts Foolishly

          1      Then Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king. 
          2      Now when Jeroboam the son of Nebat heard of it, he was living in Egypt (for he was yet in Egypt, where he had fled from the presence of King Solomon). 
          3      Then they sent and called him, and Jeroboam and all the assembly of Israel came and spoke to Rehoboam, saying, 
          4      “Your father made our yoke hard; now therefore lighten the hard service of your father and his heavy yoke which he put on us, and we will serve you.” 
          5      Then he said to them, “Depart for three days, then return to me.” So the people departed. 
          6      King Rehoboam consulted with the elders who had served his father Solomon while he was still alive, saying, “How do you counsel me to answer (davar) this people?” 
          7      Then they spoke to him, saying, “If you will be a servant to this people today, and will serve them and grant them their petition, and speak good words (davar) to them, then they will be your servants forever.” 
          8      But he forsook the counsel of the elders which they had given him, and consulted with the young men who grew up with him and served him. 
          9      So he said to them, “What counsel do you give that we may answer (davar) this people who have spoken to me, saying, ‘Lighten the yoke which your father put on us’?” 
          10      The young men who grew up with him spoke to him, saying, “Thus you shall say to this people who spoke to you, saying, ‘Your father made our yoke heavy, now you make it lighter for us!’ But you shall speak to them, ‘My little finger is thicker than my father’s loins! 
          11      ‘Whereas my father loaded you with a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke; my father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions.’ ” 
          12      Then Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam on the third day as the king had directed, saying, “Return to me on the third day.” 
          13      The king answered the people harshly, for he forsook the advice of the elders which they had given him, 
          14      and he spoke to them according to the advice of the young men, saying, “My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to your yoke; my father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions.” 
          15      So the king did not listen to the people; for it was a turn of events from the LORD, that He might establish His word (davar), which the LORD spoke through Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat. 

The Kingdom Divided; Jeroboam Rules Israel

          16      When all Israel saw that the king did not listen to them, the people answered (davar) the king, saying, 
         “What portion do we have in David? 
         We have no inheritance in the son of Jesse; 
         To your tents, O Israel! 
         Now look after your own house, David!” 
    So Israel departed to their tents. 
          17      But as for the sons of Israel who lived in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them. 
          18      Then King Rehoboam sent Adoram, who was over the forced labor, and all Israel stoned him to death. And King Rehoboam made haste to mount his chariot to flee to Jerusalem. 
          19      So Israel has been in rebellion against the house of David to this day. 
          20      It came about when all Israel heard that Jeroboam had returned, that they sent and called him to the assembly and made him king over all Israel. None but the tribe of Judah followed the house of David. 
          21      Now when Rehoboam had come to Jerusalem, he assembled all the house of Judah and the tribe of Benjamin, 180,000 chosen men who were warriors, to fight against the house of Israel to restore the kingdom to Rehoboam the son of Solomon. 
          22      But the word (davar) of God came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying, 
          23      “Speak to Rehoboam the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to all the house of Judah and Benjamin and to the rest of the people, saying, 
          24      ‘Thus says the LORD, “You must not go up and fight against your relatives the sons of Israel; return every man to his house, for this thing (davar) has come from Me.” ’ ” So they listened to the word (davar) of the LORD, and returned and went their way according to the word (davar) of the LORD. 

Jeroboam’s Idolatry

          25      Then Jeroboam built Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim, and lived there. And he went out from there and built Penuel. 
          26      Jeroboam said in his heart, “Now the kingdom will return to the house of David. 
          27      “If this people go up to offer sacrifices in the house of the LORD at Jerusalem, then the heart of this people will return to their lord, even to Rehoboam king of Judah; and they will kill me and return to Rehoboam king of Judah.” 
          28      So the king consulted, and made two golden calves, and he said to them, “It is too much for you to go up to Jerusalem; behold your gods, O Israel, that brought you up from the land (erets) of Egypt.” 
          29      He set one in Bethel, and the other he put in Dan. 
          30      Now this thing (davar) became a sin, for the people went to worship before the one as far as Dan. 
          31      And he made houses on high places, and made priests from among all the people who were not of the sons of Levi. 
          32      Jeroboam instituted a feast in the eighth month on the fifteenth day of the month, like the feast which is in Judah, and he went up to the altar; thus he did in Bethel, sacrificing to the calves which he had made. And he stationed in Bethel the priests of the high places which he had made. 
          33      Then he went up to the altar which he had made in Bethel on the fifteenth day in the eighth month, even in the month which he had devised in his own heart; and he instituted a feast for the sons of Israel and went up to the altar to burn incense. 




Chapter 13


Jeroboam Warned, Stricken

          1      Now behold, there came a man of God from Judah to Bethel by the word (davar) of the LORD, while Jeroboam was standing by the altar to burn incense. 
          2      He cried against the altar by the word (davar) of the LORD, and said, “O altar, altar, thus says the LORD, ‘Behold, a son shall be born to the house of David, Josiah by name; and on you he shall sacrifice the priests of the high places who burn incense on you, and human (adam) bones shall be burned on you.’ ” 
          3      Then he gave a sign the same day, saying, “This is the sign which the LORD has spoken, ‘Behold, the altar shall be split apart and the ashes which are on it shall be poured out.’ ” 
          4      Now when the king heard the saying (davar) of the man of God, which he cried against the altar in Bethel, Jeroboam stretched out his hand from the altar, saying, “Seize him.” But his hand which he stretched out against him dried up, so that he could not draw it back to himself. 
          5      The altar also was split apart and the ashes were poured out from the altar, according to the sign which the man of God had given by the word (davar) of the LORD. 
          6      The king said to the man of God, “Please entreat the LORD your God, and pray for me, that my hand may be restored to me.” So the man of God entreated the LORD, and the king’s hand was restored to him, and it became as it was before. 
          7      Then the king said to the man of God, “Come home with me and refresh yourself, and I will give you a reward.” 
          8      But the man of God said to the king, “If you were to give me half your house I would not go with you, nor would I eat bread or drink water in this place. 
          9      “For so it was commanded me by the word (davar) of the LORD, saying, ‘You shall eat no bread, nor drink water, nor return by the way which you came.’ ” 
          10      So he went another way and did not return by the way which he came to Bethel. 

The Disobedient Prophet

          11      Now an old prophet was living in Bethel; and his sons came and told him all the deeds which the man of God had done that day in Bethel; the words (davar) which he had spoken to the king, these also they related to their father. 
          12      Their father said to them, “Which way did he go?” Now his sons had seen the way which the man of God who came from Judah had gone. 
          13      Then he said to his sons, “Saddle the donkey for me.” So they saddled the donkey for him and he rode away on it. 
          14      So he went after the man of God and found him sitting under an oak; and he said to him, “Are you the man of God who came from Judah?” And he said, “I am.” 
          15      Then he said to him, “Come home with me and eat bread.” 
          16      He said, “I cannot return with you, nor go with you, nor will I eat bread or drink water with you in this place. 
          17      “For a command (davar) came to me by the word (davar) of the LORD, ‘You shall eat no bread, nor drink water there; do not return by going the way which you came.’ ” 
          18      He said to him, “I also am a prophet like you, and an angel spoke to me by the word (davar) of the LORD, saying, ‘Bring him back with you to your house, that he may eat bread and drink water.’ ” But he lied to him. 
          19      So he went back with him, and ate bread in his house and drank water. 
          20      Now it came about, as they were sitting down at the table, that the word (davar) of the LORD came to the prophet who had brought him back; 
          21      and he cried to the man of God who came from Judah, saying, “Thus says the LORD, ‘Because you have disobeyed the command of the LORD, and have not observed the commandment (mitsvah) which the LORD your God commanded you, 
          22      but have returned and eaten bread and drunk water in the place of which He said to you, “Eat no bread and drink no water”; your body shall not come to the grave of your fathers.’ ” 
          23      It came about after he had eaten bread and after he had drunk, that he saddled the donkey for him, for the prophet whom he had brought back. 
          24      Now when he had gone, a lion met him on the way and killed him, and his body was thrown on the road, with the donkey standing beside it; the lion also was standing beside the body. 
          25      And behold, men passed by and saw the body thrown on the road, and the lion standing beside the body; so they came and told it in the city where the old prophet lived. 
          26      Now when the prophet who brought him back from the way heard it, he said, “It is the man of God, who disobeyed the command of the LORD; therefore the LORD has given him to the lion, which has torn him and killed him, according to the word (davar) of the LORD which He spoke to him.” 
          27      Then he spoke to his sons, saying, “Saddle the donkey for me.” And they saddled it. 
          28      He went and found his body thrown on the road with the donkey and the lion standing beside the body; the lion had not eaten the body nor torn the donkey. 
          29      So the prophet took up the body of the man of God and laid it on the donkey and brought it back, and he came to the city of the old prophet to mourn and to bury him. 
          30      He laid his body in his own grave, and they mourned over him, saying, “Alas, my brother!” 
          31      After he had buried him, he spoke to his sons, saying, “When I die, bury me in the grave in which the man of God is buried; lay my bones beside his bones. 
          32      “For the thing (davar) shall surely come to pass which he cried by the word (davar) of the LORD against the altar in Bethel and against all the houses of the high places which are in the cities of Samaria.” 
          33      After this event (davar) Jeroboam did not return from his evil way, but again he made priests of the high places from among all the people; any who would, he ordained, to be priests of the high places. 
          34      This event (davar) became sin to the house of Jeroboam, even to blot it out and destroy it from off the face of the earth (adama). 




Chapter 14


Ahijah Prophesies against the King

          1      At that time Abijah the son of Jeroboam became sick. 
          2      Jeroboam said to his wife, “Arise now, and disguise yourself so that they will not know that you are the wife of Jeroboam, and go to Shiloh; behold, Ahijah the prophet is there, who spoke concerning me that I would be king over this people. 
          3      “Take ten loaves with you, some cakes and a jar of honey, and go to him. He will tell you what will happen to the boy.” 
          4      Jeroboam’s wife did so, and arose and went to Shiloh, and came to the house of Ahijah. Now Ahijah could not see, for his eyes were dim because of his age. 
          5      Now the LORD had said to Ahijah, “Behold, the wife of Jeroboam is coming to inquire  (davar)of you concerning her son, for he is sick. You shall say thus and thus to her, for it will be when she arrives that she will pretend to be another woman.” 
          6      When Ahijah heard the sound of her feet coming in the doorway, he said, “Come in, wife of Jeroboam, why do you pretend to be another woman? For I am sent to you with a harsh message. 
          7      “Go, say to Jeroboam, ‘Thus says the LORD God of Israel, “Because I exalted you from among the people and made you leader over My people Israel, 
          8      and tore the kingdom away from the house of David and gave it to you—yet you have not been like My servant David, who kept My commandments (mitsvah) and who followed Me with all his heart, to do only that which was right in My sight; 
          9      you also have done more evil than all who were before you, and have gone and made for yourself other gods and molten images to provoke Me to anger, and have cast Me behind your back— 
          10      therefore behold, I am bringing calamity on the house of Jeroboam, and will cut off from Jeroboam every male person, both bond and free in Israel, and I will make a clean sweep of the house of Jeroboam, as one sweeps away dung until it is all gone. 
          11      “Anyone belonging to Jeroboam who dies in the city the dogs will eat. And he who dies in the field the birds of the heavens will eat; for the LORD has spoken it.” ’ 
          12      “Now you, arise, go to your house. When your feet enter the city the child will die. 
          13      “All Israel shall mourn for him and bury him, for he alone of Jeroboam’s family will come to the grave, because in him something (davar) good was found toward the LORD God of Israel in the house of Jeroboam. 
          14      “Moreover, the LORD will raise up for Himself a king over Israel who will cut off the house of Jeroboam this day and from now on. 
          15      “For the LORD will strike Israel, as a reed is shaken in the water; and He will uproot Israel from this good land (adama) which He gave to their fathers, and will scatter them beyond the Euphrates River, because they have made their Asherim, provoking the LORD to anger. 
          16      “He will give up Israel on account of the sins of Jeroboam, which he committed and with which he made Israel to sin.” 
          17      Then Jeroboam’s wife arose and departed and came to Tirzah. As she was entering the threshold of the house, the child died. 
          18      All Israel buried him and mourned for him, according to the word (davar) of the LORD which He spoke through His servant Ahijah the prophet. 
          19      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Jeroboam, how he made war and how he reigned, behold, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Israel. 
          20      The time that Jeroboam reigned was twenty-two years; and he slept with his fathers, and Nadab his son reigned in his place. 

Rehoboam Misleads Judah

          21      Now Rehoboam the son of Solomon reigned in Judah. Rehoboam was forty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD had chosen from all the tribes of Israel to put His name there. And his mother’s name was Naamah the Ammonitess. 
          22      Judah did evil in the sight of the LORD, and they provoked Him to jealousy more than all that their fathers had done, with the sins which they committed. 
          23      For they also built for themselves high places and sacred pillars and Asherim on every high hill and beneath every luxuriant tree. 
          24      There were also male cult prostitutes in the land (erets). They did according to all the abominations of the nations which the LORD dispossessed before the sons of Israel. 
          25      Now it happened in the fifth year of King Rehoboam, that Shishak the king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem. 
          26      He took away the treasures of the house of the LORD and the treasures of the king’s house, and he took everything, even taking all the shields of gold which Solomon had made. 
          27      So King Rehoboam made shields of bronze in their place, and committed them to the care of the commanders of the guard who guarded the doorway of the king’s house. 
          28      Then it happened as often as the king entered the house of the LORD, that the guards would carry them and would bring them back into the guards’ room. 
          29      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Rehoboam and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Judah? 
          30      There was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam continually. 
          31      And Rehoboam slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David; and his mother’s name was Naamah the Ammonitess. And Abijam his son became king in his place. 




Chapter 15


Abijam Reigns over Judah

          1      Now in the eighteenth year of King Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, Abijam became king over Judah. 
          2      He reigned three years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Maacah the daughter of Abishalom. 
          3      He walked in all the sins of his father which he had committed before him; and his heart was not wholly devoted to the LORD his God, like the heart of his father David. 
          4      But for David’s sake the LORD his God gave him a lamp in Jerusalem, to raise up his son after him and to establish Jerusalem; 
          5      because David did what was right in the sight of the LORD, and had not turned aside from anything that He commanded him all the days of his life, except in the case (davar) of Uriah the Hittite. 
          6      There was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days of his life. 
          7      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Abijam and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Judah? And there was war between Abijam and Jeroboam. 

Asa Succeeds Abijam

          8      And Abijam slept with his fathers and they buried him in the city of David; and Asa his son became king in his place. 
          9      So in the twentieth year of Jeroboam the king of Israel, Asa began to reign as king of Judah. 
          10      He reigned forty-one years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Maacah the daughter of Abishalom. 
          11      Asa did what was right in the sight of the LORD, like David his father. 
          12      He also put away the male cult prostitutes from the land (erets) and removed all the idols which his fathers had made. 
          13      He also removed Maacah his mother from being queen mother, because she had made a horrid image as an Asherah; and Asa cut down her horrid image and burned it at the brook Kidron. 
          14      But the high places were not taken away; nevertheless the heart of Asa was wholly devoted to the LORD all his days. 
          15      He brought into the house of the LORD the dedicated things of his father and his own dedicated things: silver and gold and utensils. 
          16      Now there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days. 
          17      Baasha king of Israel went up against Judah and fortified Ramah in order to prevent anyone from going out or coming in to Asa king of Judah. 
          18      Then Asa took all the silver and the gold which were left in the treasuries of the house of the LORD and the treasuries of the king’s house, and delivered them into the hand of his servants. And King Asa sent them to Ben-hadad the son of Tabrimmon, the son of Hezion, king of Aram, who lived in Damascus, saying, 
          19      “Let there be a treaty between you and me, as between my father and your father. Behold, I have sent you a present of silver and gold; go, break your treaty with Baasha king of Israel so that he will withdraw from me.” 
          20      So Ben-hadad listened to King Asa and sent the commanders of his armies against the cities of Israel, and conquered Ijon, Dan, Abel-beth-maacah and all Chinneroth, besides all the land (erets) of Naphtali. 
          21      When Baasha heard of it, he ceased fortifying Ramah and remained in Tirzah. 
          22      Then King Asa made a proclamation to all Judah—none was exempt—and they carried away the stones of Ramah and its timber with which Baasha had built. And King Asa built with them Geba of Benjamin and Mizpah. 

Jehoshaphat Succeeds Asa

          23      Now the rest of all the acts (davar) of Asa and all his might and all that he did and the cities which he built, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Judah? But in the time of his old age he was diseased in his feet. 
          24      And Asa slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father; and Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his place. 

Nadab, then Baasha, Rules over Israel

          25      Now Nadab the son of Jeroboam became king over Israel in the second year of Asa king of Judah, and he reigned over Israel two years. 
          26      He did evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way of his father and in his sin which he made Israel sin. 
          27      Then Baasha the son of Ahijah of the house of Issachar conspired against him, and Baasha struck him down at Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines, while Nadab and all Israel were laying siege to Gibbethon. 
          28      So Baasha killed him in the third year of Asa king of Judah and reigned in his place. 
          29      It came about as soon as he was king, he struck down all the household of Jeroboam. He did not leave to Jeroboam any persons alive, until he had destroyed them, according to the word (davar) of the LORD, which He spoke by His servant Ahijah the Shilonite, 
          30      and because of the sins of Jeroboam which he sinned, and which he made Israel sin, because of his provocation with which he provoked the LORD God of Israel to anger. 
          31      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Nadab and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Israel? 

War with Judah

          32      There was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days. 
          33      In the third year of Asa king of Judah, Baasha the son of Ahijah became king over all Israel at Tirzah, and reigned twenty-four years. 
          34      He did evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way of Jeroboam and in his sin which he made Israel sin. 




Chapter 16


Prophecy against Baasha

          1      Now the word (davar) of the LORD came to Jehu the son of Hanani against Baasha, saying, 
          2      “Inasmuch as I exalted you from the dust and made you leader over My people Israel, and you have walked in the way of Jeroboam and have made My people Israel sin, provoking Me to anger with their sins, 
          3      behold, I will consume Baasha and his house, and I will make your house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat. 
          4      “Anyone of Baasha who dies in the city the dogs will eat, and anyone of his who dies in the field the birds of the heavens will eat.” 
          5      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Baasha and what he did and his might, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Israel? 

The Israelite Kings

          6      And Baasha slept with his fathers and was buried in Tirzah, and Elah his son became king in his place. 
          7      Moreover, the word (davar) of the LORD through the prophet Jehu the son of Hanani also came against Baasha and his household, both because of all the evil which he did in the sight of the LORD, provoking Him to anger with the work of his hands, in being like the house of Jeroboam, and because he struck it. 
          8      In the twenty-sixth year of Asa king of Judah, Elah the son of Baasha became king over Israel at Tirzah, and reigned two years. 
          9      His servant Zimri, commander of half his chariots, conspired against him. Now he was at Tirzah drinking himself drunk in the house of Arza, who was over the household at Tirzah. 
          10      Then Zimri went in and struck him and put him to death in the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah, and became king in his place. 
          11      It came about when he became king, as soon as he sat on his throne, that he killed all the household of Baasha; he did not leave a single male, neither of his relatives nor of his friends. 
          12      Thus Zimri destroyed all the household of Baasha, according to the word (davar) of the LORD, which He spoke against Baasha through Jehu the prophet, 
          13      for all the sins of Baasha and the sins of Elah his son, which they sinned and which they made Israel sin, provoking the LORD God of Israel to anger with their idols (hevel). 
          14      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Elah and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Israel? 
          15      In the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah, Zimri reigned seven days at Tirzah. Now the people were camped against Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines. 
          16      The people who were camped heard it said, “Zimri has conspired and has also struck down the king.” Therefore all Israel made Omri, the commander of the army, king over Israel that day in the camp. 
          17      Then Omri and all Israel with him went up from Gibbethon and besieged Tirzah. 
          18      When Zimri saw that the city was taken, he went into the citadel of the king’s house and burned the king’s house over him with fire, and died, 
          19      because of his sins which he sinned, doing evil in the sight of the LORD, walking in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin which he did, making Israel sin. 
          20      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Zimri and his conspiracy which he carried out, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Israel? 
          21      Then the people of Israel were divided into two parts: half of the people followed Tibni the son of Ginath, to make him king; the other half followed Omri. 
          22      But the people who followed Omri prevailed over the people who followed Tibni the son of Ginath. And Tibni died and Omri became king. 
          23      In the thirty-first year of Asa king of Judah, Omri became king over Israel and reigned twelve years; he reigned six years at Tirzah. 
          24      He bought the hill Samaria from Shemer for two talents of silver; and he built on the hill, and named the city which he built Samaria, after the name of Shemer, the owner of the hill. 
          25      Omri did evil in the sight of the LORD, and acted more wickedly than all who were before him. 
          26      For he walked in all the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat and in his sins which he made Israel sin, provoking the LORD God of Israel with their idols (hevel). 
          27      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Omri which he did and his might which he showed, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Israel? 
          28      So Omri slept with his fathers and was buried in Samaria; and Ahab his son became king in his place. 
          29      Now Ahab the son of Omri became king over Israel in the thirty-eighth year of Asa king of Judah, and Ahab the son of Omri reigned over Israel in Samaria twenty-two years. 
          30      Ahab the son of Omri did evil in the sight of the LORD more than all who were before him. 
          31      It came about, as though it had been a trivial thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, that he married Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal king of the Sidonians, and went to serve Baal and worshiped him. 
          32      So he erected an altar for Baal in the house of Baal which he built in Samaria. 
          33      Ahab also made the Asherah. Thus Ahab did more to provoke the LORD God of Israel than all the kings of Israel who were before him. 
          34      In his days Hiel the Bethelite built Jericho; he laid its foundations with the loss of Abiram his firstborn, and set up its gates with the loss of his youngest son Segub, according to the word (davar) of the LORD, which He spoke by Joshua the son of Nun. 




Chapter 17


Elijah Predicts Drought

          1      Now Elijah the Tishbite, who was of the settlers of Gilead, said to Ahab, “As the LORD, the God of Israel lives, before whom I stand, surely there shall be neither dew nor rain these years, except by my word (davar).” 
          2      The word (davar) of the LORD came to him, saying, 
          3      “Go away from here and turn eastward, and hide yourself by the brook Cherith, which is east of the Jordan. 
          4      “It shall be that you will drink of the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to provide for you there.” 
          5      So he went and did according to the word (davar) of the LORD, for he went and lived by the brook Cherith, which is east of the Jordan. 
          6      The ravens brought him bread and meat in the morning and bread and meat in the evening, and he would drink from the brook. 
          7      It happened after a while that the brook dried up, because there was no rain in the land (erets). 
          8      Then the word (davar) of the LORD came to him, saying, 
          9      “Arise, go to Zarephath, which belongs to Sidon, and stay there; behold, I have commanded a widow there to provide for you.” 
          10      So he arose and went to Zarephath, and when he came to the gate of the city, behold, a widow was there gathering sticks; and he called to her and said, “Please get me a little water in a jar, that I may drink.” 
          11      As she was going to get it, he called to her and said, “Please bring me a piece of bread in your hand.” 
          12      But she said, “As the LORD your God lives, I have no bread, only a handful of flour in the bowl and a little oil in the jar; and behold, I am gathering a few sticks that I may go in and prepare for me and my son, that we may eat it and die.” 
          13      Then Elijah said to her, “Do not fear; go, do as you have said (davar), but make me a little bread cake from it first and bring it out to me, and afterward you may make one for yourself and for your son. 
          14      “For thus says the LORD God of Israel, ‘The bowl of flour shall not be exhausted, nor shall the jar of oil be empty, until the day that the LORD sends rain on the face of the earth (adama).’ ” 
          15      So she went and did according to the word (davar) of Elijah, and she and he and her household ate for many days. 
          16      The bowl of flour was not exhausted nor did the jar of oil become empty, according to the word (davar) of the LORD which He spoke through Elijah. 

Elijah Raises the Widow’s Son

          17      Now it came about after these things (davar) that the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, became sick; and his sickness was so severe that there was no breath left in him. 
          18      So she said to Elijah, “What do I have to do with you, O man of God? You have come to me to bring my iniquity to remembrance and to put my son to death!” 
          19      He said to her, “Give me your son.” Then he took him from her bosom and carried him up to the upper room where he was living, and laid him on his own bed. 
          20      He called to the LORD and said, “O LORD my God, have You also brought calamity to the widow with whom I am staying, by causing her son to die?” 
          21      Then he stretched himself upon the child three times, and called to the LORD and said, “O LORD my God, I pray You, let this child’s life return to him.” 
          22      The LORD heard the voice of Elijah, and the life of the child returned to him and he revived. 
          23      Elijah took the child and brought him down from the upper room into the house and gave him to his mother; and Elijah said, “See, your son is alive.” 
          24      Then the woman said to Elijah, “Now I know that you are a man of God and that the word (davar) of the LORD in your mouth is truth.” 




Chapter 18


Obadiah Meets Elijah

          1      Now it happened after many days that the word (davar) of the LORD came to Elijah in the third year, saying, “Go, show yourself to Ahab, and I will send rain on the face of the earth (adama).” 
          2      So Elijah went to show himself to Ahab. Now the famine was severe in Samaria. 
          3      Ahab called Obadiah who was over the household. (Now Obadiah feared the LORD greatly; 
          4      for when Jezebel destroyed the prophets of the LORD, Obadiah took a hundred prophets and hid them by fifties in a cave, and provided them with bread and water.) 
          5      Then Ahab said to Obadiah, “Go through the land (erets) to all the springs of water and to all the valleys; perhaps we will find grass and keep the horses and mules alive, and not have to kill some of the cattle.” 
          6      So they divided the land (erets) between them to survey it; Ahab went one way by himself and Obadiah went another way by himself. 
          7      Now as Obadiah was on the way, behold, Elijah met him, and he recognized him and fell on his face and said, “Is this you, Elijah my master?” 
          8      He said to him, “It is I. Go, say to your master, ‘Behold, Elijah is here.’ ” 
          9      He said, “What sin have I committed, that you are giving your servant into the hand of Ahab to put me to death? 
          10      “As the LORD your God lives, there is no nation or kingdom where my master has not sent to search for you; and when they said, ‘He is not here,’ he made the kingdom or nation swear that they could not find you. 
          11      “And now you are saying, ‘Go, say to your master, “Behold, Elijah is here.” ’ 
          12      “It will come about when I leave you that the Spirit of the LORD will carry you where I do not know; so when I come and tell Ahab and he cannot find you, he will kill me, although I your servant have feared the LORD from my youth. 
          13      “Has it not been told to my master what I did when Jezebel killed the prophets of the LORD, that I hid a hundred prophets of the LORD by fifties in a cave, and provided them with bread and water? 
          14      “And now you are saying, ‘Go, say to your master, “Behold, Elijah is here” ’; he will then kill me.” 
          15      Elijah said, “As the LORD of hosts lives, before whom I stand, I will surely show myself to him today.” 
          16      So Obadiah went to meet Ahab and told him; and Ahab went to meet Elijah. 
          17      When Ahab saw Elijah, Ahab said to him, “Is this you, you troubler of Israel?” 
          18      He said, “I have not troubled Israel, but you and your father’s house have, because you have forsaken the commandments (mitsvah) of the LORD and you have followed the Baals. 
          19      “Now then send and gather to me all Israel at Mount Carmel, together with 450 prophets of Baal and 400 prophets of the Asherah, who eat at Jezebel’s table.” 

God or Baal on Mount Carmel

          20      So Ahab sent a message among all the sons of Israel and brought the prophets together at Mount Carmel. 
          21      Elijah came near to all the people and said, “How long will you hesitate between two opinions? If the LORD is God, follow Him; but if Baal, follow him.” But the people did not answer him a word (davar). 
          22      Then Elijah said to the people, “I alone am left a prophet of the LORD, but Baal’s prophets are 450 men. 
          23      “Now let them give us two oxen; and let them choose one ox for themselves and cut it up, and place it on the wood, but put no fire under it; and I will prepare the other ox and lay it on the wood, and I will not put a fire under it. 
          24      “Then you call on the name of your god, and I will call on the name of the LORD, and the God who answers by fire, He is God.” And all the people said, “That is a good idea (davar).” 
          25      So Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, “Choose one ox for yourselves and prepare it first for you are many, and call on the name of your god, but put no fire under it.” 
          26      Then they took the ox which was given them and they prepared it and called on the name of Baal from morning until noon saying, “O Baal, answer us.” But there was no voice and no one answered. And they leaped about the altar which they made. 
          27      It came about at noon, that Elijah mocked them and said, “Call out with a loud voice, for he is a god; either he is occupied or gone aside, or is on a journey, or perhaps he is asleep and needs to be awakened.” 
          28      So they cried with a loud voice and cut themselves according to their custom (mishphat) with swords and lances until the blood gushed out on them. 
          29      When midday was past, they raved until the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice; but there was no voice, no one answered, and no one paid attention. 
          30      Then Elijah said to all the people, “Come near to me.” So all the people came near to him. And he repaired the altar of the LORD which had been torn down. 
          31      Elijah took twelve stones according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob, to whom the word (davar) of the LORD had come, saying, “Israel shall be your name.” 
          32      So with the stones he built an altar in the name of the LORD, and he made a trench around the altar, large enough to hold two measures of seed. 
          33      Then he arranged the wood and cut the ox in pieces and laid it on the wood. 
          34      And he said, “Fill four pitchers with water and pour it on the burnt offering and on the wood.” And he said, “Do it a second time,” and they did it a second time. And he said, “Do it a third time,” and they did it a third time. 
          35      The water flowed around the altar and he also filled the trench with water. 

Elijah’s Prayer

          36      At the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, Elijah the prophet came near and said, “O LORD, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Israel, today let it be known that You are God in Israel and that I am Your servant and I have done all these things (davar) at Your word (davar). 
          37      “Answer me, O LORD, answer me, that this people may know that You, O LORD, are God, and that You have turned their heart back again.” 
          38      Then the fire of the LORD fell and consumed the burnt offering and the wood and the stones and the dust, and licked up the water that was in the trench. 
          39      When all the people saw it, they fell on their faces; and they said, “The LORD, He is God; the LORD, He is God.” 
          40      Then Elijah said to them, “Seize the prophets of Baal; do not let one of them escape.” So they seized them; and Elijah brought them down to the brook Kishon, and slew them there. 
          41      Now Elijah said to Ahab, “Go up, eat and drink; for there is the sound of the roar of a heavy shower.” 
          42      So Ahab went up to eat and drink. But Elijah went up to the top of Carmel; and he crouched down on the earth (erets) and put his face between his knees. 
          43      He said to his servant, “Go up now, look toward the sea.” So he went up and looked and said, “There is nothing.” And he said, “Go back” seven times. 
          44      It came about at the seventh time, that he said, “Behold, a cloud as small as a man’s hand is coming up from the sea.” And he said, “Go up, say to Ahab, ‘Prepare your chariot and go down, so that the heavy shower does not stop you.’ ” 
          45      In a little while the sky grew black with clouds and wind, and there was a heavy shower. And Ahab rode and went to Jezreel. 
          46      Then the hand of the LORD was on Elijah, and he girded up his loins and outran Ahab to Jezreel. 




Chapter 19


Elijah Flees from Jezebel

          1      Now Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and how he had killed all the prophets with the sword. 
          2      Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah, saying, “So may the gods do to me and even more, if I do not make your life as the life of one of them by tomorrow about this time.” 
          3      And he was afraid and arose and ran for his life and came to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah, and left his servant there. 
          4      But he himself went a day’s journey into the wilderness, and came and sat down under a juniper tree; and he requested for himself that he might die, and said, “It is enough; now, O LORD, take my life, for I am not better than my fathers.” 
          5      He lay down and slept under a juniper tree; and behold, there was an angel touching him, and he said to him, “Arise, eat.” 
          6      Then he looked and behold, there was at his head a bread cake baked on hot stones, and a jar of water. So he ate and drank and lay down again. 
          7      The angel of the LORD came again a second time and touched him and said, “Arise, eat, because the journey is too great for you.” 
          8      So he arose and ate and drank, and went in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights to Horeb, the mountain of God. 

Elijah at Horeb

          9      Then he came there to a cave and lodged there; and behold, the word (davar) of the LORD came to him, and He said to him, “What are you doing here, Elijah?” 
          10      He said, “I have been very zealous for the LORD, the God of hosts; for the sons of Israel have forsaken Your covenant, torn down Your altars and killed Your prophets with the sword. And I alone am left; and they seek my life, to take it away.” 
          11      So He said, “Go forth and stand on the mountain before the LORD.” And behold, the LORD was passing by! And a great and strong wind was rending the mountains and breaking in pieces the rocks before the LORD; but the LORD was not in the wind. And after the wind an earthquake, but the LORD was not in the earthquake. 
          12      After the earthquake a fire, but the LORD was not in the fire; and after the fire a sound of a gentle blowing. 
          13      When Elijah heard it, he wrapped his face in his mantle and went out and stood in the entrance of the cave. And behold, a voice came to him and said, “What are you doing here, Elijah?” 
          14      Then he said, “I have been very zealous for the LORD, the God of hosts; for the sons of Israel have forsaken Your covenant, torn down Your altars and killed Your prophets with the sword. And I alone am left; and they seek my life, to take it away.” 
          15      The LORD said to him, “Go, return on your way to the wilderness of Damascus, and when you have arrived, you shall anoint Hazael king over Aram; 
          16      and Jehu the son of Nimshi you shall anoint king over Israel; and Elisha the son of Shaphat of Abel-meholah you shall anoint as prophet in your place. 
          17      “It shall come about, the one who escapes from the sword of Hazael, Jehu shall put to death, and the one who escapes from the sword of Jehu, Elisha shall put to death. 
          18      “Yet I will leave 7,000 in Israel, all the knees that have not bowed to Baal and every mouth that has not kissed him.” 
          19      So he departed from there and found Elisha the son of Shaphat, while he was plowing with twelve pairs of oxen before him, and he with the twelfth. And Elijah passed over to him and threw his mantle on him. 
          20      He left the oxen and ran after Elijah and said, “Please let me kiss my father and my mother, then I will follow you.” And he said to him, “Go back again, for what have I done to you?” 
          21      So he returned from following him, and took the pair of oxen and sacrificed them and boiled their flesh with the implements of the oxen, and gave it to the people and they ate. Then he arose and followed Elijah and ministered to him. 




Chapter 20


War with Aram

          1      Now Ben-hadad king of Aram gathered all his army, and there were thirty-two kings with him, and horses and chariots. And he went up and besieged Samaria and fought against it. 
          2      Then he sent messengers to the city to Ahab king of Israel and said to him, “Thus says Ben-hadad, 
          3      ‘Your silver and your gold are mine; your most beautiful wives and children are also mine.’ ” 
          4      The king of Israel replied, “It is according to your word (davar), my lord, O king; I am yours, and all that I have.” 
          5      Then the messengers returned and said, “Thus says Ben-hadad, ‘Surely, I sent to you saying, “You shall give me your silver and your gold and your wives and your children,” 
          6      but about this time tomorrow I will send my servants to you, and they will search your house and the houses of your servants; and whatever is desirable in your eyes, they will take in their hand and carry away.’ ” 
          7      Then the king of Israel called all the elders of the land (erets) and said, “Please observe and see how this man is looking for trouble; for he sent to me for my wives and my children and my silver and my gold, and I did not refuse him.” 
          8      All the elders and all the people said to him, “Do not listen or consent.” 
          9      So he said to the messengers of Ben-hadad, “Tell my lord the king, ‘All that you sent for to your servant at the first I will do, but this thing (davar) I cannot do.’ ” And the messengers departed and brought him word (davar) again. 
          10      Ben-hadad sent to him and said, “May the gods do so to me and more also, if the dust of Samaria will suffice for handfuls for all the people who follow me.” 
          11      Then the king of Israel replied, “Tell him, ‘Let not him who girds on his armor boast like him who takes it off.’ ” 
          12      When Ben-hadad heard this message (davar), as he was drinking with the kings in the temporary shelters, he said to his servants, “Station yourselves.” So they stationed themselves against the city. 

Ahab Victorious

          13      Now behold, a prophet approached Ahab king of Israel and said, “Thus says the LORD, ‘Have you seen all this great multitude? Behold, I will deliver them into your hand today, and you shall know that I am the LORD.’ ” 
          14      Ahab said, “By whom?” So he said, “Thus says the LORD, ‘By the young men of the rulers of the provinces.’ ” Then he said, “Who shall begin the battle?” And he answered, “You.” 
          15      Then he mustered the young men of the rulers of the provinces, and there were 232; and after them he mustered all the people, even all the sons of Israel, 7,000. 
          16      They went out at noon, while Ben-hadad was drinking himself drunk in the temporary shelters with the thirty-two kings who helped him. 
          17      The young men of the rulers of the provinces went out first; and Ben-hadad sent out and they told him, saying, “Men have come out from Samaria.” 
          18      Then he said, “If they have come out for peace, take them alive; or if they have come out for war, take them alive.” 
          19      So these went out from the city, the young men of the rulers of the provinces, and the army which followed them. 
          20      They killed each his man; and the Arameans fled and Israel pursued them, and Ben-hadad king of Aram escaped on a horse with horsemen. 
          21      The king of Israel went out and struck the horses and chariots, and killed the Arameans with a great slaughter. 
          22      Then the prophet came near to the king of Israel and said to him, “Go, strengthen yourself and observe and see what you have to do; for at the turn of the year the king of Aram will come up against you.” 
          23      Now the servants of the king of Aram said to him, “Their gods are gods of the mountains, therefore they were stronger than we; but rather let us fight against them in the plain, and surely we will be stronger than they. 
          24      “Do this thing (davar): remove the kings, each from his place, and put captains in their place, 
          25      and muster an army like the army that you have lost, horse for horse, and chariot for chariot. Then we will fight against them in the plain, and surely we will be stronger than they.” And he listened to their voice and did so. 

Another Aramean War

          26      At the turn of the year, Ben-hadad mustered the Arameans and went up to Aphek to fight against Israel. 
          27      The sons of Israel were mustered and were provisioned and went to meet them; and the sons of Israel camped before them like two little flocks of goats, but the Arameans filled the country (erets). 
          28      Then a man of God came near and spoke to the king of Israel and said, “Thus says the LORD, ‘Because the Arameans have said, “The LORD is a god of the mountains, but He is not a god of the valleys,” therefore I will give all this great multitude into your hand, and you shall know that I am the LORD.’ ” 
          29      So they camped one over against the other seven days. And on the seventh day the battle was joined, and the sons of Israel killed of the Arameans 100,000 foot soldiers in one day. 
          30      But the rest fled to Aphek into the city, and the wall fell on 27,000 men who were left. And Ben-hadad fled and came into the city into an inner chamber. 
          31      His servants said to him, “Behold now, we have heard that the kings of the house of Israel are merciful kings, please let us put sackcloth on our loins and ropes on our heads, and go out to the king of Israel; perhaps he will save your life.” 
          32      So they girded sackcloth on their loins and put ropes on their heads, and came to the king of Israel and said, “Your servant Ben-hadad says, ‘Please let me live.’ ” And he said, “Is he still alive? He is my brother.” 
          33      Now the men took this as an omen, and quickly catching his word said, “Your brother Ben-hadad.” Then he said, “Go, bring him.” Then Ben-hadad came out to him, and he took him up into the chariot. 
          34      Ben-hadad said to him, “The cities which my father took from your father I will restore, and you shall make streets for yourself in Damascus, as my father made in Samaria.” Ahab said, “And I will let you go with this covenant.” So he made a covenant with him and let him go. 
          35      Now a certain man of the sons of the prophets said to another by the word (davar) of the LORD, “Please strike me.” But the man refused to strike him. 
          36      Then he said to him, “Because you have not listened to the voice of the LORD, behold, as soon as you have departed from me, a lion will kill you.” And as soon as he had departed from him a lion found him and killed him. 
          37      Then he found another man and said, “Please strike me.” And the man struck him, wounding him. 
          38      So the prophet departed and waited for the king by the way, and disguised himself with a bandage over his eyes. 
          39      As the king passed by, he cried to the king and said, “Your servant went out into the midst of the battle; and behold, a man turned aside and brought a man to me and said, ‘Guard this man; if for any reason he is missing, then your life shall be for his life, or else you shall pay a talent of silver.’ 
          40      “While your servant was busy here and there, he was gone.” And the king of Israel said to him, “So shall your judgment (mishphat) be; you yourself have decided it.” 
          41      Then he hastily took the bandage away from his eyes, and the king of Israel recognized him that he was of the prophets. 
          42      He said to him, “Thus says the LORD, ‘Because you have let go out of your hand the man whom I had devoted to destruction, therefore your life shall go for his life, and your people for his people.’ ” 
          43      So the king of Israel went to his house sullen and vexed, and came to Samaria. 




Chapter 21


Ahab Covets Naboth’s Vineyard

          1      Now it came about after these things (davar) that Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard which was in Jezreel beside the palace of Ahab king of Samaria. 
          2      Ahab spoke to Naboth, saying, “Give me your vineyard, that I may have it for a vegetable garden because it is close beside my house, and I will give you a better vineyard than it in its place; if you like, I will give you the price of it in money.” 
          3      But Naboth said to Ahab, “The LORD forbid me that I should give you the inheritance of my fathers.” 
          4      So Ahab came into his house sullen and vexed because of the word (davar) which Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him; for he said, “I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers.” And he lay down on his bed and turned away his face and ate no food. 
          5      But Jezebel his wife came to him and said to him, “How is it that your spirit is so sullen that you are not eating food?” 
          6      So he said to her, “Because I spoke to Naboth the Jezreelite and said to him, ‘Give me your vineyard for money; or else, if it pleases you, I will give you a vineyard in its place.’ But he said, ‘I will not give you my vineyard.’ ” 
          7      Jezebel his wife said to him, “Do you now reign over Israel? Arise, eat bread, and let your heart be joyful; I will give you the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite.” 
          8      So she wrote letters in Ahab’s name and sealed them with his seal, and sent letters to the elders and to the nobles who were living with Naboth in his city. 
          9      Now she wrote in the letters, saying, “Proclaim a fast and seat Naboth at the head of the people; 
          10      and seat two worthless men before him, and let them testify against him, saying, ‘You cursed God and the king.’ Then take him out and stone him to death.” 

Jezebel’s Plot

          11      So the men of his city, the elders and the nobles who lived in his city, did as Jezebel had sent word to them, just as it was written in the letters which she had sent them. 
          12      They proclaimed a fast and seated Naboth at the head of the people. 
          13      Then the two worthless men came in and sat before him; and the worthless men testified against him, even against Naboth, before the people, saying, “Naboth cursed God and the king.” So they took him outside the city and stoned him to death with stones. 
          14      Then they sent word to Jezebel, saying, “Naboth has been stoned and is dead.” 
          15      When Jezebel heard that Naboth had been stoned and was dead, Jezebel said to Ahab, “Arise, take possession of the vineyard of Naboth, the Jezreelite, which he refused to give you for money; for Naboth is not alive, but dead.” 
          16      When Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, Ahab arose to go down to the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, to take possession of it. 
          17      Then the word (davar) of the LORD came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying, 
          18      “Arise, go down to meet Ahab king of Israel, who is in Samaria; behold, he is in the vineyard of Naboth where he has gone down to take possession of it. 
          19      “You shall speak to him, saying, ‘Thus says the LORD, “Have you murdered and also taken possession?” ’ And you shall speak to him, saying, ‘Thus says the LORD, “In the place where the dogs licked up the blood of Naboth the dogs will lick up your blood, even yours.” ’ ” 
          20      Ahab said to Elijah, “Have you found me, O my enemy?” And he answered, “I have found you, because you have sold yourself to do evil in the sight of the LORD. 
          21      “Behold, I will bring evil upon you, and will utterly sweep you away, and will cut off from Ahab every male, both bond and free in Israel; 
          22      and I will make your house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah, because of the provocation with which you have provoked Me to anger, and because you have made Israel sin. 
          23      “Of Jezebel also has the LORD spoken, saying, ‘The dogs will eat Jezebel in the district of Jezreel.’ 
          24      “The one belonging to Ahab, who dies in the city, the dogs will eat, and the one who dies in the field the birds of heaven will eat.” 
          25      Surely there was no one like Ahab who sold himself to do evil in the sight of the LORD, because Jezebel his wife incited him. 
          26      He acted very abominably in following idols, according to all that the Amorites had done, whom the LORD cast out before the sons of Israel. 
          27      It came about when Ahab heard these words (davar), that he tore his clothes and put on sackcloth and fasted, and he lay in sackcloth and went about despondently. 
          28      Then the word (davar) of the LORD came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying, 
          29      “Do you see how Ahab has humbled himself before Me? Because he has humbled himself before Me, I will not bring the evil in his days, but I will bring the evil upon his house in his son’s days.” 




Chapter 22


Ahab’s Third Campaign against Aram

          1      Three years passed without war between Aram and Israel. 
          2      In the third year Jehoshaphat the king of Judah came down to the king of Israel. 
          3      Now the king of Israel said to his servants, “Do you know that Ramoth-gilead belongs to us, and we are still doing nothing to take it out of the hand of the king of Aram?” 
          4      And he said to Jehoshaphat, “Will you go with me to battle at Ramoth-gilead?” And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, “I am as you are, my people as your people, my horses as your horses.” 
          5      Moreover, Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, “Please inquire first for the word (davar) of the LORD.” 
          6      Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, about four hundred men, and said to them, “Shall I go against Ramoth-gilead to battle or shall I refrain?” And they said, “Go up, for the Lord will give it into the hand of the king.” 
          7      But Jehoshaphat said, “Is there not yet a prophet of the LORD here that we may inquire of him?” 
          8      The king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “There is yet one man by whom we may inquire of the LORD, but I hate him, because he does not prophesy good concerning me, but evil. He is Micaiah son of Imlah.” But Jehoshaphat said, “Let not the king say so.” 
          9      Then the king of Israel called an officer and said, “Bring quickly Micaiah son of Imlah.” 
          10      Now the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah were sitting each on his throne, arrayed in their robes, at the threshing floor at the entrance of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets were prophesying before them. 
          11      Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made horns of iron for himself and said, “Thus says the LORD, ‘With these you will gore the Arameans until they are consumed.’ ” 
          12      All the prophets were prophesying thus, saying, “Go up to Ramoth-gilead and prosper, for the LORD will give it into the hand of the king.” 

Micaiah Predicts Defeat

          13      Then the messenger who went to summon Micaiah spoke to him saying, “Behold now, the words (davar) of the prophets are uniformly favorable to the king. Please let your word (davar) be like the word (davar) of one of them, and speak favorably.” 
          14      But Micaiah said, “As the LORD lives, what the LORD says to me, that I shall speak.” 
          15      When he came to the king, the king said to him, “Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall we refrain?” And he answered him, “Go up and succeed, and the LORD will give it into the hand of the king.” 
          16      Then the king said to him, “How many times must I adjure you to speak to me nothing but the truth in the name of the LORD?” 
          17      So he said, 
         “I saw all Israel 
         Scattered on the mountains, 
         Like sheep which have no shepherd. 
         And the LORD said, ‘These have no master. 
         Let each of them return to his house in peace.’ ” 
          18      Then the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “Did I not tell you that he would not prophesy good concerning me, but evil?” 
          19      Micaiah said, “Therefore, hear the word (davar) of the LORD. I saw the LORD sitting on His throne, and all the host of heaven standing by Him on His right and on His left. 
          20      “The LORD said, ‘Who will entice Ahab to go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead?’ And one said this while another said that. 
          21      “Then a spirit came forward and stood before the LORD and said, ‘I will entice him.’ 
          22      “The LORD said to him, ‘How?’ And he said, ‘I will go out and be a deceiving spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.’ Then He said, ‘You are to entice him and also prevail. Go and do so.’ 
          23      “Now therefore, behold, the LORD has put a deceiving spirit in the mouth of all these your prophets; and the LORD has proclaimed disaster against you.” 
          24      Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near and struck Micaiah on the cheek and said, “How did the Spirit of the LORD pass from me to speak to you?” 
          25      Micaiah said, “Behold, you shall see on that day when you enter an inner room to hide yourself.” 
          26      Then the king of Israel said, “Take Micaiah and return him to Amon the governor of the city and to Joash the king’s son; 
          27      and say, ‘Thus says the king, “Put this man in prison and feed him sparingly with bread and water until I return safely.” ’ ” 
          28      Micaiah said, “If you indeed return safely the LORD has not spoken by me.” And he said, “Listen, all you people.” 

Defeat and Death of Ahab

          29      So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah went up against Ramoth-gilead. 
          30      The king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “I will disguise myself and go into the battle, but you put on your robes.” So the king of Israel disguised himself and went into the battle. 
          31      Now the king of Aram had commanded the thirty-two captains of his chariots, saying, “Do not fight with small or great, but with the king of Israel alone.” 
          32      So when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, they said, “Surely it is the king of Israel,” and they turned aside to fight against him, and Jehoshaphat cried out. 
          33      When the captains of the chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back from pursuing him. 
          34      Now a certain man drew his bow at random and struck the king of Israel in a joint of the armor. So he said to the driver of his chariot, “Turn around and take me out of the fight; for I am severely wounded.” 
          35      The battle raged that day, and the king was propped up in his chariot in front of the Arameans, and died at evening, and the blood from the wound ran into the bottom of the chariot. 
          36      Then a cry passed throughout the army close to sunset, saying, “Every man to his city and every man to his country (erets).” 
          37      So the king died and was brought to Samaria, and they buried the king in Samaria. 
          38      They washed the chariot by the pool of Samaria, and the dogs licked up his blood (now the harlots bathed themselves there), according to the word (davar) of the LORD which He spoke. 
          39      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Ahab and all that he did and the ivory house which he built and all the cities which he built, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Israel? 
          40      So Ahab slept with his fathers, and Ahaziah his son became king in his place. 

The New Rulers

          41      Now Jehoshaphat the son of Asa became king over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab king of Israel. 
          42      Jehoshaphat was thirty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned twenty-five years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi. 
          43      He walked in all the way of Asa his father; he did not turn aside from it, doing right in the sight of the LORD. However, the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burnt incense on the high places. 
          44      Jehoshaphat also made peace with the king of Israel. 
          45      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Jehoshaphat, and his might which he showed and how he warred, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Judah? 
          46      The remnant of the sodomites who remained in the days of his father Asa, he expelled from the land (erets). 
          47      Now there was no king in Edom; a deputy was king. 
          48      Jehoshaphat made ships of Tarshish to go to Ophir for gold, but they did not go for the ships were broken at Ezion-geber. 
          49      Then Ahaziah the son of Ahab said to Jehoshaphat, “Let my servants go with your servants in the ships.” But Jehoshaphat was not willing. 
          50      And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of his father David, and Jehoram his son became king in his place. 
          51      Ahaziah the son of Ahab became king over Israel in Samaria in the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and he reigned two years over Israel. 
          52      He did evil in the sight of the LORD and walked in the way of his father and in the way of his mother and in the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin. 
          53      So he served Baal and worshiped him and provoked the LORD God of Israel to anger, according to all that his father had done. 










The Second Book of the
KINGS




Chapter 1


Ahaziah’s Messengers Meet Elijah

          1      Now Moab rebelled against Israel after the death of Ahab. 
          2      And Ahaziah fell through the lattice in his upper chamber which was in Samaria, and became ill. So he sent messengers and said to them, “Go, inquire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron, whether I will recover from this sickness.” 
          3      But the angel of the LORD said to Elijah the Tishbite, “Arise, go up to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria and say to them, ‘Is it because there is no God in Israel that you are going to inquire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron?’ 
          4      “Now therefore thus says the LORD, ‘You shall not come down from the bed where you have gone up, but you shall surely die.’ ” Then Elijah departed. 
          5      When the messengers returned to him he said to them, “Why have you returned?” 
          6      They said to him, “A man came up to meet us and said to us, ‘Go, return to the king who sent you and say to him, “Thus says the LORD, ‘Is it because there is no God in Israel that you are sending to inquire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron? Therefore you shall not come down from the bed where you have gone up, but shall surely die.’ ” ’ ” 
          7      He said to them, “What kind (mishphat) of man was he who came up to meet you and spoke these words (davar) to you?” 
          8      They answered him, “He was a hairy man with a leather girdle bound about his loins.” And he said, “It is Elijah the Tishbite.” 
          9      Then the king sent to him a captain of fifty with his fifty. And he went up to him, and behold, he was sitting on the top of the hill. And he said to him, “O man of God, the king says, ‘Come down.’ ” 
          10      Elijah replied to the captain of fifty, “If I am a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty.” Then fire came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty. 
          11      So he again sent to him another captain of fifty with his fifty. And he said to him, “O man of God, thus says the king, ‘Come down quickly.’ ” 
          12      Elijah replied to them, “If I am a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty.” Then the fire of God came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty. 
          13      So he again sent the captain of a third fifty with his fifty. When the third captain of fifty went up, he came and bowed down on his knees before Elijah, and begged him and said to him, “O man of God, please let my life and the lives of these fifty servants of yours be precious in your sight. 
          14      “Behold fire came down from heaven and consumed the first two captains of fifty with their fifties; but now let my life be precious in your sight.” 
          15      The angel of the LORD said to Elijah, “Go down with him; do not be afraid of him.” So he arose and went down with him to the king. 
          16      Then he said to him, “Thus says the LORD, ‘Because you have sent messengers to inquire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron—is it because there is no God in Israel to inquire of His word (davar)?—therefore you shall not come down from the bed where you have gone up, but shall surely die.’ ” 

Jehoram Reigns over Israel

          17      So Ahaziah died according to the word (davar) of the LORD which Elijah had spoken. And because he had no son, Jehoram became king in his place in the second year of Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah. 
          18      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Ahaziah which he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Israel? 




Chapter 2


Elijah Taken to Heaven

          1      And it came about when the LORD was about to take up Elijah by a whirlwind to heaven, that Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal. 
          2      Elijah said to Elisha, “Stay here please, for the LORD has sent me as far as Bethel.” But Elisha said, “As the LORD lives and as you yourself live, I will not leave you.” So they went down to Bethel. 
          3      Then the sons of the prophets who were at Bethel came out to Elisha and said to him, “Do you know that the LORD will take away your master from over you today?” And he said, “Yes, I know; be still.” 
          4      Elijah said to him, “Elisha, please stay here, for the LORD has sent me to Jericho.” But he said, “As the LORD lives, and as you yourself live, I will not leave you.” So they came to Jericho. 
          5      The sons of the prophets who were at Jericho approached Elisha and said to him, “Do you know that the LORD will take away your master from over you today?” And he answered, “Yes, I know; be still.” 
          6      Then Elijah said to him, “Please stay here, for the LORD has sent me to the Jordan.” And he said, “As the LORD lives, and as you yourself live, I will not leave you.” So the two of them went on. 
          7      Now fifty men of the sons of the prophets went and stood opposite them at a distance, while the two of them stood by the Jordan. 
          8      Elijah took his mantle and folded it together and struck the waters, and they were divided here and there, so that the two of them crossed over on dry ground. 
          9      When they had crossed over, Elijah said to Elisha, “Ask what I shall do for you before I am taken from you.” And Elisha said, “Please, let a double portion of your spirit be upon me.” 
          10      He said, “You have asked a hard thing. Nevertheless, if you see me when I am taken from you, it shall be so for you; but if not, it shall not be so.” 
          11      As they were going along and talking, behold, there appeared a chariot of fire and horses of fire which separated the two of them. And Elijah went up by a whirlwind to heaven. 
          12      Elisha saw it and cried out, “My father, my father, the chariots of Israel and its horsemen!” And he saw Elijah no more. Then he took hold of his own clothes and tore them in two pieces. 
          13      He also took up the mantle of Elijah that fell from him and returned and stood by the bank of the Jordan. 
          14      He took the mantle of Elijah that fell from him and struck the waters and said, “Where is the LORD, the God of Elijah?” And when he also had struck the waters, they were divided here and there; and Elisha crossed over. 

Elisha Succeeds Elijah

          15      Now when the sons of the prophets who were at Jericho opposite him saw him, they said, “The spirit of Elijah rests on Elisha.” And they came to meet him and bowed themselves to the ground (erets) before him. 
          16      They said to him, “Behold now, there are with your servants fifty strong men, please let them go and search for your master; perhaps the Spirit of the LORD has taken him up and cast him on some mountain or into some valley.” And he said, “You shall not send.” 
          17      But when they urged him until he was ashamed, he said, “Send.” They sent therefore fifty men; and they searched three days but did not find him. 
          18      They returned to him while he was staying at Jericho; and he said to them, “Did I not say to you, ‘Do not go’?” 
          19      Then the men of the city said to Elisha, “Behold now, the situation of this city is pleasant, as my lord sees; but the water is bad and the land (erets) is unfruitful.” 
          20      He said, “Bring me a new jar, and put salt in it.” So they brought it to him. 
          21      He went out to the spring of water and threw salt in it and said, “Thus says the LORD, ‘I have purified these waters; there shall not be from there death or unfruitfulness any longer.’ ” 
          22      So the waters have been purified to this day, according to the word (davar) of Elisha which he spoke. 
          23      Then he went up from there to Bethel; and as he was going up by the way, young lads came out from the city and mocked him and said to him, “Go up, you baldhead; go up, you baldhead!” 
          24      When he looked behind him and saw them, he cursed them in the name of the LORD. Then two female bears came out of the woods and tore up forty-two lads of their number. 
          25      He went from there to Mount Carmel, and from there he returned to Samaria. 




Chapter 3


Jehoram Meets Moab Rebellion

          1      Now Jehoram the son of Ahab became king over Israel at Samaria in the eighteenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and reigned twelve years. 
          2      He did evil in the sight of the LORD, though not like his father and his mother; for he put away the sacred pillar of Baal which his father had made. 
          3      Nevertheless, he clung to the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel sin; he did not depart from them. 
          4      Now Mesha king of Moab was a sheep breeder, and used to pay the king of Israel 100,000 lambs and the wool of 100,000 rams. 
          5      But when Ahab died, the king of Moab rebelled against the king of Israel. 
          6      And King Jehoram went out of Samaria at that time and mustered all Israel. 
          7      Then he went and sent word to Jehoshaphat the king of Judah, saying, “The king of Moab has rebelled against me. Will you go with me to fight against Moab?” And he said, “I will go up; I am as you are, my people as your people, my horses as your horses.” 
          8      He said, “Which way shall we go up?” And he answered, “The way of the wilderness of Edom.” 
          9      So the king of Israel went with the king of Judah and the king of Edom; and they made a circuit of seven days’ journey, and there was no water for the army or for the cattle that followed them. 
          10      Then the king of Israel said, “Alas! For the LORD has called these three kings to give them into the hand of Moab.” 
          11      But Jehoshaphat said, “Is there not a prophet of the LORD here, that we may inquire of the LORD by him?” And one of the king of Israel’s servants answered and said, “Elisha the son of Shaphat is here, who used to pour water on the hands of Elijah.” 
          12      Jehoshaphat said, “The word (davar) of the LORD is with him.” So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat and the king of Edom went down to him. 
          13      Now Elisha said to the king of Israel, “What do I have to do with you? Go to the prophets of your father and to the prophets of your mother.” And the king of Israel said to him, “No, for the LORD has called these three kings together to give them into the hand of Moab.” 
          14      Elisha said, “As the LORD of hosts lives, before whom I stand, were it not that I regard the presence of Jehoshaphat the king of Judah, I would not look at you nor see you. 
          15      “But now bring me a minstrel.” And it came about, when the minstrel played, that the hand of the LORD came upon him. 
          16      He said, “Thus says the LORD, ‘Make this valley full of trenches.’ 
          17      “For thus says the LORD, ‘You shall not see wind nor shall you see rain; yet that valley shall be filled with water, so that you shall drink, both you and your cattle and your beasts. 
          18      ‘This is but a slight thing in the sight of the LORD; He will also give the Moabites into your hand. 
          19      ‘Then you shall strike every fortified city and every choice city, and fell every good tree and stop all springs of water, and mar every good piece of land with stones.’ ” 
          20      It happened in the morning about the time of offering the sacrifice, that behold, water came by the way of Edom, and the country (erets) was filled with water. 
          21      Now all the Moabites heard that the kings had come up to fight against them. And all who were able to put on armor and older were summoned and stood on the border. 
          22      They rose early in the morning, and the sun shone on the water, and the Moabites saw the water opposite them as red as blood. 
          23      Then they said, “This is blood; the kings have surely fought together, and they have slain one another. Now therefore, Moab, to the spoil!” 
          24      But when they came to the camp of Israel, the Israelites arose and struck the Moabites, so that they fled before them; and they went forward into the land, slaughtering the Moabites. 
          25      Thus they destroyed the cities; and each one threw a stone on every piece of good land and filled it. So they stopped all the springs of water and felled all the good trees, until in Kir-hareseth only they left its stones; however, the slingers went about it and struck it. 
          26      When the king of Moab saw that the battle was too fierce for him, he took with him 700 men who drew swords, to break through to the king of Edom; but they could not. 
          27      Then he took his oldest son who was to reign in his place, and offered him as a burnt offering on the wall. And there came great wrath against Israel, and they departed from him and returned to their own land (erets). 




Chapter 4


The Widow’s Oil

          1      Now a certain woman of the wives of the sons of the prophets cried out to Elisha, “Your servant my husband is dead, and you know that your servant feared the LORD; and the creditor has come to take my two children to be his slaves.” 
          2      Elisha said to her, “What shall I do for you? Tell me, what do you have in the house?” And she said, “Your maidservant has nothing in the house except a jar of oil.” 
          3      Then he said, “Go, borrow vessels at large for yourself from all your neighbors, even empty vessels; do not get a few. 
          4      “And you shall go in and shut the door behind you and your sons, and pour out into all these vessels, and you shall set aside what is full.” 
          5      So she went from him and shut the door behind her and her sons; they were bringing the vessels to her and she poured. 
          6      When the vessels were full, she said to her son, “Bring me another vessel.” And he said to her, “There is not one vessel more.” And the oil stopped. 
          7      Then she came and told the man of God. And he said, “Go, sell the oil and pay your debt, and you and your sons can live on the rest.” 

The Shunammite Woman

          8      Now there came a day when Elisha passed over to Shunem, where there was a prominent woman, and she persuaded him to eat food. And so it was, as often as he passed by, he turned in there to eat food. 
          9      She said to her husband, “Behold now, I perceive that this is a holy man of God passing by us continually. 
          10      “Please, let us make a little walled upper chamber and let us set a bed for him there, and a table and a chair and a lampstand; and it shall be, when he comes to us, that he can turn in there.” 
          11      One day he came there and turned in to the upper chamber and rested. 
          12      Then he said to Gehazi his servant, “Call this Shunammite.” And when he had called her, she stood before him. 
          13      He said to him, “Say now to her, ‘Behold, you have been careful for us with all this care; what can I do for you? Would you be spoken for to the king or to the captain of the army?’ ” And she answered, “I live among my own people.” 
          14      So he said, “What then is to be done for her?” And Gehazi answered, “Truly she has no son and her husband is old.” 
          15      He said, “Call her.” When he had called her, she stood in the doorway. 
          16      Then he said, “At this season next year you will embrace a son.” And she said, “No, my lord, O man of God, do not lie to your maidservant.” 
          17      The woman conceived and bore a son at that season the next year, as Elisha had said to her. 

The Shunammite’s Son

          18      When the child was grown, the day came that he went out to his father to the reapers. 
          19      He said to his father, “My head, my head.” And he said to his servant, “Carry him to his mother.” 
          20      When he had taken him and brought him to his mother, he sat on her lap until noon, and then died. 
          21      She went up and laid him on the bed of the man of God, and shut the door behind him and went out. 
          22      Then she called to her husband and said, “Please send me one of the servants and one of the donkeys, that I may run to the man of God and return.” 
          23      He said, “Why will you go to him today? It is neither new moon nor sabbath.” And she said, “It will be well.” 
          24      Then she saddled a donkey and said to her servant, “Drive and go forward; do not slow down the pace for me unless I tell you.” 
          25      So she went and came to the man of God to Mount Carmel. 
    When the man of God saw her at a distance, he said to Gehazi his servant, “Behold, there is the Shunammite. 
          26      “Please run now to meet her and say to her, ‘Is it well with you? Is it well with your husband? Is it well with the child?’ ” And she answered, “It is well.” 
          27      When she came to the man of God to the hill, she caught hold of his feet. And Gehazi came near to push her away; but the man of God said, “Let her alone, for her soul is troubled within her; and the LORD has hidden it from me and has not told me.” 
          28      Then she said, “Did I ask for a son from my lord? Did I not say, ‘Do not deceive me’?” 
          29      Then he said to Gehazi, “Gird up your loins and take my staff in your hand, and go your way; if you meet any man, do not salute him, and if anyone salutes you, do not answer him; and lay my staff on the lad’s face.” 
          30      The mother of the lad said, “As the LORD lives and as you yourself live, I will not leave you.” And he arose and followed her. 
          31      Then Gehazi passed on before them and laid the staff on the lad’s face, but there was no sound or response. So he returned to meet him and told him, “The lad has not awakened.” 
          32      When Elisha came into the house, behold the lad was dead and laid on his bed. 
          33      So he entered and shut the door behind them both and prayed to the LORD. 
          34      And he went up and lay on the child, and put his mouth on his mouth and his eyes on his eyes and his hands on his hands, and he stretched himself on him; and the flesh of the child became warm. 
          35      Then he returned and walked in the house once back and forth, and went up and stretched himself on him; and the lad sneezed seven times and the lad opened his eyes. 
          36      He called Gehazi and said, “Call this Shunammite.” So he called her. And when she came in to him, he said, “Take up your son.” 
          37      Then she went in and fell at his feet and bowed herself to the ground (erets), and she took up her son and went out. 

The Poisonous Stew

          38      When Elisha returned to Gilgal, there was a famine in the land (erets). As the sons of the prophets were sitting before him, he said to his servant, “Put on the large pot and boil stew for the sons of the prophets.” 
          39      Then one went out into the field to gather herbs, and found a wild vine and gathered from it his lap full of wild gourds, and came and sliced them into the pot of stew, for they did not know what they were. 
          40      So they poured it out for the men to eat. And as they were eating of the stew, they cried out and said, “O man of God, there is death in the pot.” And they were unable to eat. 
          41      But he said, “Now bring meal.” He threw it into the pot and said, “Pour it out for the people that they may eat.” Then there was no harm (davar) in the pot. 
          42      Now a man came from Baal-shalishah, and brought the man of God bread of the first fruits, twenty loaves of barley and fresh ears of grain in his sack. And he said, “Give them to the people that they may eat.” 
          43      His attendant said, “What, will I set this before a hundred men?” But he said, “Give them to the people that they may eat, for thus says the LORD, ‘They shall eat and have some left over.’ ” 
          44      So he set it before them, and they ate and had some left over, according to the word (davar) of the LORD. 




Chapter 5


Naaman Is Healed

          1      Now Naaman, captain of the army of the king of Aram, was a great man with his master, and highly respected, because by him the LORD had given victory to Aram. The man was also a valiant warrior, but he was a leper. 
          2      Now the Arameans had gone out in bands and had taken captive a little girl from the land (erets) of Israel; and she waited on Naaman’s wife. 
          3      She said to her mistress, “I wish that my master were with the prophet who is in Samaria! Then he would cure him of his leprosy.” 
          4      Naaman went in and told his master, saying, “Thus and thus spoke the girl who is from the land (erets) of Israel.” 
          5      Then the king of Aram said, “Go now, and I will send a letter to the king of Israel.” He departed and took with him ten talents of silver and six thousand shekels of gold and ten changes of clothes. 
          6      He brought the letter to the king of Israel, saying, “And now as this letter comes to you, behold, I have sent Naaman my servant to you, that you may cure him of his leprosy.” 
          7      When the king of Israel read the letter, he tore his clothes and said, “Am I God, to kill and to make alive, that this man is sending word to me to cure a man of his leprosy? But consider now, and see how he is seeking a quarrel against me.” 
          8      It happened when Elisha the man of God heard that the king of Israel had torn his clothes, that he sent word to the king, saying, “Why have you torn your clothes? Now let him come to me, and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel.” 
          9      So Naaman came with his horses and his chariots and stood at the doorway of the house of Elisha. 
          10      Elisha sent a messenger to him, saying, “Go and wash in the Jordan seven times, and your flesh will be restored to you and you will be clean.” 
          11      But Naaman was furious and went away and said, “Behold, I thought, ‘He will surely come out to me and stand and call on the name of the LORD his God, and wave his hand over the place and cure the leper.’ 
          12      “Are not Abanah and Pharpar, the rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? Could I not wash in them and be clean?” So he turned and went away in a rage. 
          13      Then his servants came near and spoke to him and said, “My father, had the prophet told you to do some great thing (davar), would you not have done it? How much more then, when he says to you, ‘Wash, and be clean’?” 
          14      So he went down and dipped himself seven times in the Jordan, according to the word (davar) of the man of God; and his flesh was restored like the flesh of a little child and he was clean. 

Gehazi’s Greed

          15      When he returned to the man of God with all his company, and came and stood before him, he said, “Behold now, I know that there is no God in all the earth (erets), but in Israel; so please take a present from your servant now.” 
          16      But he said, “As the LORD lives, before whom I stand, I will take nothing.” And he urged him to take it, but he refused. 
          17      Naaman said, “If not, please let your servant at least be given two mules’ load of earth (adama); for your servant will no longer offer burnt offering nor will he sacrifice to other gods, but to the LORD. 
          18      “In this matter (davar) may the LORD pardon your servant: when my master goes into the house of Rimmon to worship there, and he leans on my hand and I bow myself in the house of Rimmon, when I bow myself in the house of Rimmon, the LORD pardon your servant in this matter (davar).” 
          19      He said to him, “Go in peace.” So he departed from him some distance (erets). 
          20      But Gehazi, the servant of Elisha the man of God, thought, “Behold, my master has spared this Naaman the Aramean, by not receiving from his hands what he brought. As the LORD lives, I will run after him and take something from him.” 
          21      So Gehazi pursued Naaman. When Naaman saw one running after him, he came down from the chariot to meet him and said, “Is all well?” 
          22      He said, “All is well. My master has sent me, saying, ‘Behold, just now two young men of the sons of the prophets have come to me from the hill country of Ephraim. Please give them a talent of silver and two changes of clothes.’ ” 
          23      Naaman said, “Be pleased to take two talents.” And he urged him, and bound two talents of silver in two bags with two changes of clothes and gave them to two of his servants; and they carried them before him. 
          24      When he came to the hill, he took them from their hand and deposited them in the house, and he sent the men away, and they departed. 
          25      But he went in and stood before his master. And Elisha said to him, “Where have you been, Gehazi?” And he said, “Your servant went nowhere.” 
          26      Then he said to him, “Did not my heart go with you, when the man turned from his chariot to meet you? Is it a time to receive money and to receive clothes and olive groves and vineyards and sheep and oxen and male and female servants? 
          27      “Therefore, the leprosy of Naaman shall cling to you and to your descendants forever.” So he went out from his presence a leper as white as snow. 




Chapter 6


The Axe Head Recovered

          1      Now the sons of the prophets said to Elisha, “Behold now, the place before you where we are living is too limited for us. 
          2      “Please let us go to the Jordan and each of us take from there a beam, and let us make a place there for ourselves where we may live.” So he said, “Go.” 
          3      Then one said, “Please be willing to go with your servants.” And he answered, “I shall go.” 
          4      So he went with them; and when they came to the Jordan, they cut down trees. 
          5      But as one was felling a beam, the axe head fell into the water; and he cried out and said, “Alas, my master! For it was borrowed.” 
          6      Then the man of God said, “Where did it fall?” And when he showed him the place, he cut off a stick and threw it in there, and made the iron float. 
          7      He said, “Take it up for yourself.” So he put out his hand and took it. 

The Arameans Plot to Capture Elisha

          8      Now the king of Aram was warring against Israel; and he counseled with his servants saying, “In such and such a place shall be my camp.” 
          9      The man of God sent word to the king of Israel saying, “Beware that you do not pass this place, for the Arameans are coming down there.” 
          10      The king of Israel sent to the place about which the man of God had told him; thus he warned him, so that he guarded himself there, more than once or twice. 
          11      Now the heart of the king of Aram was enraged over this thing (davar); and he called his servants and said to them, “Will you tell me which of us is for the king of Israel?” 
          12      One of his servants said, “No, my lord, O king; but Elisha, the prophet who is in Israel, tells the king of Israel the words (davar) that you speak in your bedroom.” 
          13      So he said, “Go and see where he is, that I may send and take him.” And it was told him, saying, “Behold, he is in Dothan.” 
          14      He sent horses and chariots and a great army there, and they came by night and surrounded the city. 
          15      Now when the attendant of the man of God had risen early and gone out, behold, an army with horses and chariots was circling the city. And his servant said to him, “Alas, my master! What shall we do?” 
          16      So he answered, “Do not fear, for those who are with us are more than those who are with them.” 
          17      Then Elisha prayed and said, “O LORD, I pray, open his eyes that he may see.” And the LORD opened the servant’s eyes and he saw; and behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha. 
          18      When they came down to him, Elisha prayed to the LORD and said, “Strike this people with blindness, I pray.” So He struck them with blindness according to the word (davar) of Elisha. 
          19      Then Elisha said to them, “This is not the way, nor is this the city; follow me and I will bring you to the man whom you seek.” And he brought them to Samaria. 
          20      When they had come into Samaria, Elisha said, “O LORD, open the eyes of these men, that they may see.” So the LORD opened their eyes and they saw; and behold, they were in the midst of Samaria. 
          21      Then the king of Israel when he saw them, said to Elisha, “My father, shall I kill them? Shall I kill them?” 
          22      He answered, “You shall not kill them. Would you kill those you have taken captive with your sword and with your bow? Set bread and water before them, that they may eat and drink and go to their master.” 
          23      So he prepared a great feast for them; and when they had eaten and drunk he sent them away, and they went to their master. And the marauding bands of Arameans did not come again into the land (erets) of Israel. 

The Siege of Samaria—Cannibalism

          24      Now it came about after this, that Ben-hadad king of Aram gathered all his army and went up and besieged Samaria. 
          25      There was a great famine in Samaria; and behold, they besieged it, until a donkey’s head was sold for eighty shekels of silver, and a fourth of a kab of dove’s dung for five shekels of silver. 
          26      As the king of Israel was passing by on the wall a woman cried out to him, saying, “Help, my lord, O king!” 
          27      He said, “If the LORD does not help you, from where shall I help you? From the threshing floor, or from the wine press?” 
          28      And the king said to her, “What is the matter with you?” And she answered, “This woman said to me, ‘Give your son that we may eat him today, and we will eat my son tomorrow.’ 
          29      “So we boiled my son and ate him; and I said to her on the next day, ‘Give your son, that we may eat him’; but she has hidden her son.” 
          30      When the king heard the words (davar) of the woman, he tore his clothes—now he was passing by on the wall—and the people looked, and behold, he had sackcloth beneath on his body. 
          31      Then he said, “May God do so to me and more also, if the head of Elisha the son of Shaphat remains on him today.” 
          32      Now Elisha was sitting in his house, and the elders were sitting with him. And the king sent a man from his presence; but before the messenger came to him, he said to the elders, “Do you see how this son of a murderer has sent to take away my head? Look, when the messenger comes, shut the door and hold the door shut against him. Is not the sound of his master’s feet behind him?” 
          33      While he was still talking with them, behold, the messenger came down to him and he said, “Behold, this evil is from the LORD; why should I wait for the LORD any longer?” 




Chapter 7


Elisha Promises Food

          1      Then Elisha said, “Listen to the word (davar) of the LORD; thus says the LORD, ‘Tomorrow about this time a measure of fine flour will be sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, in the gate of Samaria.’ ” 
          2      The royal officer on whose hand the king was leaning answered the man of God and said, “Behold, if the LORD should make windows in heaven, could this thing (davar) be?” Then he said, “Behold, you will see it with your own eyes, but you will not eat of it.” 

Four Lepers Relate Arameans’ Flight

          3      Now there were four leprous men at the entrance of the gate; and they said to one another, “Why do we sit here until we die? 
          4      “If we say, ‘We will enter the city,’ then the famine is in the city and we will die there; and if we sit here, we die also. Now therefore come, and let us go over to the camp of the Arameans. If they spare us, we will live; and if they kill us, we will but die.” 
          5      They arose at twilight to go to the camp of the Arameans; when they came to the outskirts of the camp of the Arameans, behold, there was no one there. 
          6      For the Lord had caused the army of the Arameans to hear a sound of chariots and a sound of horses, even the sound of a great army, so that they said to one another, “Behold, the king of Israel has hired against us the kings of the Hittites and the kings of the Egyptians, to come upon us.” 
          7      Therefore they arose and fled in the twilight, and left their tents and their horses and their donkeys, even the camp just as it was, and fled for their life. 
          8      When these lepers came to the outskirts of the camp, they entered one tent and ate and drank, and carried from there silver and gold and clothes, and went and hid them; and they returned and entered another tent and carried from there also, and went and hid them. 
          9      Then they said to one another, “We are not doing right. This day is a day of good news, but we are keeping silent; if we wait until morning light, punishment will overtake us. Now therefore come, let us go and tell the king’s household.” 
          10      So they came and called to the gatekeepers of the city, and they told them, saying, “We came to the camp of the Arameans, and behold, there was no one there, nor the voice of man (adam), only the horses tied and the donkeys tied, and the tents just as they were.” 
          11      The gatekeepers called and told it within the king’s household. 
          12      Then the king arose in the night and said to his servants, “I will now tell you what the Arameans have done to us. They know that we are hungry; therefore they have gone from the camp to hide themselves in the field, saying, ‘When they come out of the city, we will capture them alive and get into the city.’ ” 
          13      One of his servants said, “Please, let some men take five of the horses which remain, which are left in the city. Behold, they will be in any case like all the multitude of Israel who are left in it; behold, they will be in any case like all the multitude of Israel who have already perished, so let us send and see.” 
          14      They took therefore two chariots with horses, and the king sent after the army of the Arameans, saying, “Go and see.” 

The Promise Fulfilled

          15      They went after them to the Jordan, and behold, all the way was full of clothes and equipment which the Arameans had thrown away in their haste. Then the messengers returned and told the king. 
          16      So the people went out and plundered the camp of the Arameans. Then a measure of fine flour was sold for a shekel and two measures of barley for a shekel, according to the word (davar) of the LORD. 
          17      Now the king appointed the royal officer on whose hand he leaned to have charge of the gate; but the people trampled on him at the gate, and he died just as the man of God had said, who spoke when the king came down to him. 
          18      It happened just as the man of God had spoken to the king, saying, “Two measures of barley for a shekel and a measure of fine flour for a shekel, will be sold tomorrow about this time at the gate of Samaria.” 
          19      Then the royal officer answered the man of God and said, “Now behold, if the LORD should make windows in heaven, could such a thing (davar) be?” And he said, “Behold, you will see it with your own eyes, but you will not eat of it.” 
          20      And so it happened to him, for the people trampled on him at the gate and he died. 




Chapter 8


Jehoram Restores the Shunammite’s Land

          1      Now Elisha spoke to the woman whose son he had restored to life, saying, “Arise and go with your household, and sojourn wherever you can sojourn; for the LORD has called for a famine, and it will even come on the land (erets) for seven years.” 
          2      So the woman arose and did according to the word (davar) of the man of God, and she went with her household and sojourned in the land (erets) of the Philistines seven years. 
          3      At the end of seven years, the woman returned from the land (erets) of the Philistines; and she went out to appeal to the king for her house and for her field. 
          4      Now the king was talking with Gehazi, the servant of the man of God, saying, “Please relate to me all the great things that Elisha has done.” 
          5      As he was relating to the king how he had restored to life the one who was dead, behold, the woman whose son he had restored to life appealed to the king for her house and for her field. And Gehazi said, “My lord, O king, this is the woman and this is her son, whom Elisha restored to life.” 
          6      When the king asked the woman, she related it to him. So the king appointed for her a certain officer, saying, “Restore all that was hers and all the produce of the field from the day that she left the land (erets) even until now.” 

Elisha Predicts Evil from Hazael

          7      Then Elisha came to Damascus. Now Ben-hadad king of Aram was sick, and it was told him, saying, “The man of God has come here.” 
          8      The king said to Hazael, “Take a gift in your hand and go to meet the man of God, and inquire of the LORD by him, saying, ‘Will I recover from this sickness?’ ” 
          9      So Hazael went to meet him and took a gift in his hand, even every kind of good thing of Damascus, forty camels’ loads; and he came and stood before him and said, “Your son Ben-hadad king of Aram has sent me to you, saying, ‘Will I recover from this sickness?’ ” 
          10      Then Elisha said to him, “Go, say to him, ‘You will surely recover,’ but the LORD has shown me that he will certainly die.” 
          11      He fixed his gaze steadily on him until he was ashamed, and the man of God wept. 
          12      Hazael said, “Why does my lord weep?” Then he answered, “Because I know the evil that you will do to the sons of Israel: their strongholds you will set on fire, and their young men you will kill with the sword, and their little ones you will dash in pieces, and their women with child you will rip up.” 
          13      Then Hazael said, “But what is your servant, who is but a dog, that he should do this great thing (davar)?” And Elisha answered, “The LORD has shown me that you will be king over Aram.” 
          14      So he departed from Elisha and returned to his master, who said to him, “What did Elisha say to you?” And he answered, “He told me that you would surely recover.” 
          15      On the following day, he took the cover and dipped it in water and spread it on his face, so that he died. And Hazael became king in his place. 

Another Jehoram Reigns in Judah

          16      Now in the fifth year of Joram the son of Ahab king of Israel, Jehoshaphat being then the king of Judah, Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat king of Judah became king. 
          17      He was thirty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem. 
          18      He walked in the way of the kings of Israel, just as the house of Ahab had done, for the daughter of Ahab became his wife; and he did evil in the sight of the LORD. 
          19      However, the LORD was not willing to destroy Judah, for the sake of David His servant, since He had promised him to give a lamp to him through his sons always. 
          20      In his days Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah, and made a king over themselves. 
          21      Then Joram crossed over to Zair, and all his chariots with him. And he arose by night and struck the Edomites who had surrounded him and the captains of the chariots; but his army fled to their tents. 
          22      So Edom revolted against Judah to this day. Then Libnah revolted at the same time. 
          23      The rest of the acts (davar) of Joram and all that he did, are they not written in the Book (davar) of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? 

Ahaziah Succeeds Jehoram in Judah

          24      So Joram slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David; and Ahaziah his son became king in his place. 
          25      In the twelfth year of Joram the son of Ahab king of Israel, Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah began to reign. 
          26      Ahaziah was twenty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Athaliah the granddaughter of Omri king of Israel. 
          27      He walked in the way of the house of Ahab and did evil in the sight of the LORD, like the house of Ahab had done, because he was a son-in-law of the house of Ahab. 
          28      Then he went with Joram the son of Ahab to war against Hazael king of Aram at Ramoth-gilead, and the Arameans wounded Joram. 
          29      So King Joram returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Arameans had inflicted on him at Ramah when he fought against Hazael king of Aram. Then Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to see Joram the son of Ahab in Jezreel because he was sick. 




Chapter 9

          1      Now Elisha the prophet called one of the sons of the prophets and said to him, “Gird up your loins, and take this flask of oil in your hand and go to Ramoth-gilead. 
          2      “When you arrive there, search out Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi, and go in and bid him arise from among his brothers, and bring him to an inner room. 
          3      “Then take the flask of oil and pour it on his head and say, ‘Thus says the LORD, “I have anointed you king over Israel.” ’ Then open the door and flee and do not wait.” 
          4      So the young man, the servant of the prophet, went to Ramoth-gilead. 
          5      When he came, behold, the captains of the army were sitting, and he said, “I have a word (davar) for you, O captain.” And Jehu said, “For which one of us?” And he said, “For you, O captain.” 
          6      He arose and went into the house, and he poured the oil on his head and said to him, “Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, ‘I have anointed you king over the people of the LORD, even over Israel. 
          7      ‘You shall strike the house of Ahab your master, that I may avenge the blood of My servants the prophets, and the blood of all the servants of the LORD, at the hand of Jezebel. 
          8      ‘For the whole house of Ahab shall perish, and I will cut off from Ahab every male person both bond and free in Israel. 
          9      ‘I will make the house of Ahab like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah. 
          10      ‘The dogs shall eat Jezebel in the territory of Jezreel, and none shall bury her.’ ” Then he opened the door and fled. 
          11      Now Jehu came out to the servants of his master, and one said to him, “Is all well? Why did this mad fellow come to you?” And he said to them, “You know very well the man and his talk.” 
          12      They said, “It is a lie, tell us now.” And he said, “Thus and thus he said to me, ‘Thus says the LORD, “I have anointed you king over Israel.” ’ ” 
          13      Then they hurried and each man took his garment and placed it under him on the bare steps, and blew the trumpet, saying, “Jehu is king!” 


Jehoram (Joram) Is Assassinated

          14      So Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi conspired against Joram. Now Joram with all Israel was defending Ramoth-gilead against Hazael king of Aram, 
          15      but King Joram had returned to Jezreel to be healed of the wounds which the Arameans had inflicted on him when he fought with Hazael king of Aram. So Jehu said, “If this is your mind, then let no one escape or leave the city to go tell it in Jezreel.” 
          16      Then Jehu rode in a chariot and went to Jezreel, for Joram was lying there. Ahaziah king of Judah had come down to see Joram. 
          17      Now the watchman was standing on the tower in Jezreel and he saw the company of Jehu as he came, and said, “I see a company.” And Joram said, “Take a horseman and send him to meet them and let him say, ‘Is it peace?’ ” 
          18      So a horseman went to meet him and said, “Thus says the king, ‘Is it peace?’ ” And Jehu said, “What have you to do with peace? Turn behind me.” And the watchman reported, “The messenger came to them, but he did not return.” 
          19      Then he sent out a second horseman, who came to them and said, “Thus says the king, ‘Is it peace?’ ” And Jehu answered, “What have you to do with peace? Turn behind me.” 
          20      The watchman reported, “He came even to them, and he did not return; and the driving is like the driving of Jehu the son of Nimshi, for he drives furiously.” 
          21      Then Joram said, “Get ready.” And they made his chariot ready. Joram king of Israel and Ahaziah king of Judah went out, each in his chariot, and they went out to meet Jehu and found him in the property of Naboth the Jezreelite. 
          22      When Joram saw Jehu, he said, “Is it peace, Jehu?” And he answered, “What peace, so long as the harlotries of your mother Jezebel and her witchcrafts are so many?” 
          23      So Joram reined about and fled and said to Ahaziah, “There is treachery, O Ahaziah!” 
          24      And Jehu drew his bow with his full strength and shot Joram between his arms; and the arrow went through his heart and he sank in his chariot. 
          25      Then Jehu said to Bidkar his officer, “Take him up and cast him into the property of the field of Naboth the Jezreelite, for I remember when you and I were riding together after Ahab his father, that the LORD laid this oracle against him: 
          26      ‘Surely I have seen yesterday the blood of Naboth and the blood of his sons,’ says the LORD, ‘and I will repay you in this property,’ says the LORD. Now then, take and cast him into the property, according to the word (davar) of the LORD.” 

Jehu Assassinates Ahaziah

          27      When Ahaziah the king of Judah saw this, he fled by the way of the garden house. And Jehu pursued him and said, “Shoot him too, in the chariot.” So they shot him at the ascent of Gur, which is at Ibleam. But he fled to Megiddo and died there. 
          28      Then his servants carried him in a chariot to Jerusalem and buried him in his grave with his fathers in the city of David. 
          29      Now in the eleventh year of Joram, the son of Ahab, Ahaziah became king over Judah. 
          30      When Jehu came to Jezreel, Jezebel heard of it, and she painted her eyes and adorned her head and looked out the window. 
          31      As Jehu entered the gate, she said, “Is it well, Zimri, your master’s murderer?” 
          32      Then he lifted up his face to the window and said, “Who is on my side? Who?” And two or three officials looked down at him. 

Jezebel Is Slain

          33      He said, “Throw her down.” So they threw her down, and some of her blood was sprinkled on the wall and on the horses, and he trampled her under foot. 
          34      When he came in, he ate and drank; and he said, “See now to this cursed woman and bury her, for she is a king’s daughter.” 
          35      They went to bury her, but they found nothing more of her than the skull and the feet and the palms of her hands. 
          36      Therefore they returned and told him. And he said, “This is the word (davar) of the LORD, which He spoke by His servant Elijah the Tishbite, saying, ‘In the property of Jezreel the dogs shall eat the flesh of Jezebel; 
          37      and the corpse of Jezebel will be as dung on the face of the field in the property of Jezreel, so they cannot say, “This is Jezebel.” ’ ” 




Chapter 10


Judgment upon Ahab’s House

          1      Now Ahab had seventy sons in Samaria. And Jehu wrote letters and sent them to Samaria, to the rulers of Jezreel, the elders, and to the guardians of the children of Ahab, saying, 
          2      “Now, when this letter comes to you, since your master’s sons are with you, as well as the chariots and horses and a fortified city and the weapons, 
          3      select the best and fittest of your master’s sons, and set him on his father’s throne, and fight for your master’s house.” 
          4      But they feared greatly and said, “Behold, the two kings did not stand before him; how then can we stand?” 
          5      And the one who was over the household, and he who was over the city, the elders, and the guardians of the children, sent word to Jehu, saying, “We are your servants, all that you say to us we will do, we will not make any man king; do what is good in your sight.” 
          6      Then he wrote a letter to them a second time saying, “If you are on my side, and you will listen to my voice, take the heads of the men, your master’s sons, and come to me at Jezreel tomorrow about this time.” Now the king’s sons, seventy persons, were with the great men of the city, who were rearing them. 
          7      When the letter came to them, they took the king’s sons and slaughtered them, seventy persons, and put their heads in baskets, and sent them to him at Jezreel. 
          8      When the messenger came and told him, saying, “They have brought the heads of the king’s sons,” he said, “Put them in two heaps at the entrance of the gate until morning.” 
          9      Now in the morning he went out and stood and said to all the people, “You are innocent; behold, I conspired against my master and killed him, but who killed all these? 
          10      “Know then that there shall fall to the earth (erets) nothing of the word (davar) of the LORD, which the LORD spoke concerning the house of Ahab, for the LORD has done what He spoke through His servant Elijah.” 
          11      So Jehu killed all who remained of the house of Ahab in Jezreel, and all his great men and his acquaintances and his priests, until he left him without a survivor. 
          12      Then he arose and departed and went to Samaria. On the way while he was at Beth-eked of the shepherds, 
          13      Jehu met the relatives of Ahaziah king of Judah and said, “Who are you?” And they answered, “We are the relatives of Ahaziah; and we have come down to greet the sons of the king and the sons of the queen mother.” 
          14      He said, “Take them alive.” So they took them alive and killed them at the pit of Beth-eked, forty-two men; and he left none of them. 
          15      Now when he had departed from there, he met Jehonadab the son of Rechab coming to meet him; and he greeted him and said to him, “Is your heart right, as my heart is with your heart?” And Jehonadab answered, “It is.” Jehu said, “If it is, give me your hand.” And he gave him his hand, and he took him up to him into the chariot. 
          16      He said, “Come with me and see my zeal for the LORD.” So he made him ride in his chariot. 
          17      When he came to Samaria, he killed all who remained to Ahab in Samaria, until he had destroyed him, according to the word (davar) of the LORD which He spoke to Elijah. 

Jehu Destroys Baal Worshipers

          18      Then Jehu gathered all the people and said to them, “Ahab served Baal a little; Jehu will serve him much. 
          19      “Now, summon all the prophets of Baal, all his worshipers and all his priests; let no one be missing, for I have a great sacrifice for Baal; whoever is missing shall not live.” But Jehu did it in cunning, so that he might destroy the worshipers of Baal. 
          20      And Jehu said, “Sanctify a solemn assembly for Baal.” And they proclaimed it. 
          21      Then Jehu sent throughout Israel and all the worshipers of Baal came, so that there was not a man left who did not come. And when they went into the house of Baal, the house of Baal was filled from one end to the other. 
          22      He said to the one who was in charge of the wardrobe, “Bring out garments for all the worshipers of Baal.” So he brought out garments for them. 
          23      Jehu went into the house of Baal with Jehonadab the son of Rechab; and he said to the worshipers of Baal, “Search and see that there is here with you none of the servants of the LORD, but only the worshipers of Baal.” 
          24      Then they went in to offer sacrifices and burnt offerings. 
    Now Jehu had stationed for himself eighty men outside, and he had said, “The one who permits any of the men whom I bring into your hands to escape shall give up his life in exchange.” 
          25      Then it came about, as soon as he had finished offering the burnt offering, that Jehu said to the guard and to the royal officers, “Go in, kill them; let none come out.” And they killed them with the edge of the sword; and the guard and the royal officers threw them out, and went to the inner room of the house of Baal. 
          26      They brought out the sacred pillars of the house of Baal and burned them. 
          27      They also broke down the sacred pillar of Baal and broke down the house of Baal, and made it a latrine to this day. 
          28      Thus Jehu eradicated Baal out of Israel. 
          29      However, as for the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel sin, from these Jehu did not depart, even the golden calves that were at Bethel and that were at Dan. 
          30      The LORD said to Jehu, “Because you have done well in executing what is right in My eyes, and have done to the house of Ahab according to all that was in My heart, your sons of the fourth generation shall sit on the throne of Israel.” 
          31      But Jehu was not careful to walk in the law (torah) of the LORD, the God of Israel, with all his heart; he did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam, which he made Israel sin. 
          32      In those days the LORD began to cut off portions from Israel; and Hazael defeated them throughout the territory of Israel: 
          33      from the Jordan eastward, all the land (erets) of Gilead, the Gadites and the Reubenites and the Manassites, from Aroer, which is by the valley of the Arnon, even Gilead and Bashan. 

Jehoahaz Succeeds Jehu

          34      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Jehu and all that he did and all his might, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Israel? 
          35      And Jehu slept with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria. And Jehoahaz his son became king in his place. 
          36      Now the time which Jehu reigned over Israel in Samaria was twenty-eight years. 




Chapter 11


Athaliah Queen of Judah

          1      When Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she rose and destroyed all the royal offspring. 
          2      But Jehosheba, the daughter of King Joram, sister of Ahaziah, took Joash the son of Ahaziah and stole him from among the king’s sons who were being put to death, and placed him and his nurse in the bedroom. So they hid him from Athaliah, and he was not put to death. 
          3      So he was hidden with her in the house of the LORD six years, while Athaliah was reigning over the land (erets). 
          4      Now in the seventh year Jehoiada sent and brought the captains of hundreds of the Carites and of the guard, and brought them to him in the house of the LORD. Then he made a covenant with them and put them under oath in the house of the LORD, and showed them the king’s son. 
          5      He commanded them, saying, “This is the thing (davar) that you shall do: one third of you, who come in on the sabbath and keep watch over the king’s house 
          6      (one third also shall be at the gate Sur, and one third at the gate behind the guards), shall keep watch over the house for defense. 
          7      “Two parts of you, even all who go out on the sabbath, shall also keep watch over the house of the LORD for the king. 
          8      “Then you shall surround the king, each with his weapons in his hand; and whoever comes within the ranks shall be put to death. And be with the king when he goes out and when he comes in.” 
          9      So the captains of hundreds did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded. And each one of them took his men who were to come in on the sabbath, with those who were to go out on the sabbath, and came to Jehoiada the priest. 
          10      The priest gave to the captains of hundreds the spears and shields that had been King David’s, which were in the house of the LORD. 
          11      The guards stood each with his weapons in his hand, from the right side of the house to the left side of the house, by the altar and by the house, around the king. 
          12      Then he brought the king’s son out and put the crown on him and gave him the testimony (eduth); and they made him king and anointed him, and they clapped their hands and said, “Long live the king!” 
          13      When Athaliah heard the noise of the guard and of the people, she came to the people in the house of the LORD. 
          14      She looked and behold, the king was standing by the pillar, according to the custom (mishphat), with the captains and the trumpeters beside the king; and all the people of the land (erets) rejoiced and blew trumpets. Then Athaliah tore her clothes and cried, “Treason! Treason!” 
          15      And Jehoiada the priest commanded the captains of hundreds who were appointed over the army and said to them, “Bring her out between the ranks, and whoever follows her put to death with the sword.” For the priest said, “Let her not be put to death in the house of the LORD.” 
          16      So they seized her, and when she arrived at the horses’ entrance of the king’s house, she was put to death there. 
          17      Then Jehoiada made a covenant between the LORD and the king and the people, that they would be the LORD’S people, also between the king and the people. 
          18      All the people of the land (erets) went to the house of Baal, and tore it down; his altars and his images they broke in pieces thoroughly, and killed Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars. And the priest appointed officers over the house of the LORD. 
          19      He took the captains of hundreds and the Carites and the guards and all the people of the land (erets); and they brought the king down from the house of the LORD, and came by the way of the gate of the guards to the king’s house. And he sat on the throne of the kings. 
          20      So all the people of the land (erets) rejoiced and the city was quiet. For they had put Athaliah to death with the sword at the king’s house. 
          21      Jehoash was seven years old when he became king. 




Chapter 12


Joash (Jehoash) Reigns over Judah

          1      In the seventh year of Jehu, Jehoash became king, and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Zibiah of Beersheba. 
          2      Jehoash did right in the sight of the LORD all his days in which Jehoiada the priest instructed him. 
          3      Only the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. 

The Temple to Be Repaired

          4      Then Jehoash said to the priests, “All the money of the sacred things which is brought into the house of the LORD, in current money, both the money of each man’s assessment and all the money which any man’s heart prompts him to bring into the house of the LORD, 
          5      let the priests take it for themselves, each from his acquaintance; and they shall repair the damages of the house wherever any damage may be found.” 
          6      But it came about that in the twenty-third year of King Jehoash the priests had not repaired the damages of the house. 
          7      Then King Jehoash called for Jehoiada the priest, and for the other priests and said to them, “Why do you not repair the damages of the house? Now therefore take no more money from your acquaintances, but pay it for the damages of the house.” 
          8      So the priests agreed that they would take no more money from the people, nor repair the damages of the house. 
          9      But Jehoiada the priest took a chest and bored a hole in its lid and put it beside the altar, on the right side as one comes into the house of the LORD; and the priests who guarded the threshold put in it all the money which was brought into the house of the LORD. 
          10      When they saw that there was much money in the chest, the king’s scribe and the high priest came up and tied it in bags and counted the money which was found in the house of the LORD. 
          11      They gave the money which was weighed out into the hands of those who did the work, who had the oversight of the house of the LORD; and they paid it out to the carpenters and the builders who worked on the house of the LORD; 
          12      and to the masons and the stonecutters, and for buying timber and hewn stone to repair the damages to the house of the LORD, and for all that was laid out for the house to repair it. 
          13      But there were not made for the house of the LORD silver cups, snuffers, bowls, trumpets, any vessels of gold, or vessels of silver from the money which was brought into the house of the LORD; 
          14      for they gave that to those who did the work, and with it they repaired the house of the LORD. 
          15      Moreover, they did not require an accounting from the men into whose hand they gave the money to pay to those who did the work, for they dealt faithfully. 
          16      The money from the guilt offerings and the money from the sin offerings was not brought into the house of the LORD; it was for the priests. 
          17      Then Hazael king of Aram went up and fought against Gath and captured it, and Hazael set his face to go up to Jerusalem. 
          18      Jehoash king of Judah took all the sacred things that Jehoshaphat and Jehoram and Ahaziah, his fathers, kings of Judah, had dedicated, and his own sacred things and all the gold that was found among the treasuries of the house of the LORD and of the king’s house, and sent them to Hazael king of Aram. Then he went away from Jerusalem. 

Joash (Jehoash) Succeeded by Amaziah in Judah

          19      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Joash and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Judah? 
          20      His servants arose and made a conspiracy and struck down Joash at the house of Millo as he was going down to Silla. 
          21      For Jozacar the son of Shimeath and Jehozabad the son of Shomer, his servants, struck him and he died; and they buried him with his fathers in the city of David, and Amaziah his son became king in his place. 




Chapter 13


Kings of Israel: Jehoahaz and Jehoash

          1      In the twenty-third year of Joash the son of Ahaziah, king of Judah, Jehoahaz the son of Jehu became king over Israel at Samaria, and he reigned seventeen years. 
          2      He did evil in the sight of the LORD, and followed the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, with which he made Israel sin; he did not turn from them. 
          3      So the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel, and He gave them continually into the hand of Hazael king of Aram, and into the hand of Ben-hadad the son of Hazael. 
          4      Then Jehoahaz entreated the favor of the LORD, and the LORD listened to him; for He saw the oppression of Israel, how the king of Aram oppressed them. 
          5      The LORD gave Israel a deliverer, so that they escaped from under the hand of the Arameans; and the sons of Israel lived in their tents as formerly. 
          6      Nevertheless they did not turn away from the sins of the house of Jeroboam, with which he made Israel sin, but walked in them; and the Asherah also remained standing in Samaria. 
          7      For he left to Jehoahaz of the army not more than fifty horsemen and ten chariots and 10,000 footmen, for the king of Aram had destroyed them and made them like the dust at threshing. 
          8      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Jehoahaz, and all that he did and his might, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Israel? 
          9      And Jehoahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria; and Joash his son became king in his place. 
          10      In the thirty-seventh year of Joash king of Judah, Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz became king over Israel in Samaria, and reigned sixteen years. 
          11      He did evil in the sight of the LORD; he did not turn away from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, with which he made Israel sin, but he walked in them. 
          12      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Joash and all that he did and his might with which he fought against Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Israel? 
          13      So Joash slept with his fathers, and Jeroboam sat on his throne; and Joash was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel. 

Death of Elisha

          14      When Elisha became sick with the illness of which he was to die, Joash the king of Israel came down to him and wept over him and said, “My father, my father, the chariots of Israel and its horsemen!” 
          15      Elisha said to him, “Take a bow and arrows.” So he took a bow and arrows. 
          16      Then he said to the king of Israel, “Put your hand on the bow.” And he put his hand on it, then Elisha laid his hands on the king’s hands. 
          17      He said, “Open the window toward the east,” and he opened it. Then Elisha said, “Shoot!” And he shot. And he said, “The LORD’S arrow of victory, even the arrow of victory over Aram; for you will defeat the Arameans at Aphek until you have destroyed them.” 
          18      Then he said, “Take the arrows,” and he took them. And he said to the king of Israel, “Strike the ground (erets),” and he struck it three times and stopped. 
          19      So the man of God was angry with him and said, “You should have struck five or six times, then you would have struck Aram until you would have destroyed it. But now you shall strike Aram only three times.” 
          20      Elisha died, and they buried him. Now the bands of the Moabites would invade the land (erets) in the spring of the year. 
          21      As they were burying a man, behold, they saw a marauding band; and they cast the man into the grave of Elisha. And when the man touched the bones of Elisha he revived and stood up on his feet. 
          22      Now Hazael king of Aram had oppressed Israel all the days of Jehoahaz. 
          23      But the LORD was gracious to them and had compassion on them and turned to them because of His covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and would not destroy them or cast them from His presence until now. 
          24      When Hazael king of Aram died, Ben-hadad his son became king in his place. 
          25      Then Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz took again from the hand of Ben-hadad the son of Hazael the cities which he had taken in war from the hand of Jehoahaz his father. Three times Joash defeated him and recovered the cities of Israel. 




Chapter 14


Amaziah Reigns over Judah

          1      In the second year of Joash son of Joahaz king of Israel, Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah became king. 
          2      He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Jehoaddin of Jerusalem. 
          3      He did right in the sight of the LORD, yet not like David his father; he did according to all that Joash his father had done. 
          4      Only the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. 
          5      Now it came about, as soon as the kingdom was firmly in his hand, that he killed his servants who had slain the king his father. 
          6      But the sons of the slayers he did not put to death, according to what is written in the book of the Law (torah) of Moses, as the LORD commanded, saying, “The fathers shall not be put to death for the sons, nor the sons be put to death for the fathers; but each shall be put to death for his own sin.” 
          7      He killed of Edom in the Valley of Salt 10,000 and took Sela by war, and named it Joktheel to this day. 
          8      Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash, the son of Jehoahaz son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, “Come, let us face each other.” 
          9      Jehoash king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, “The thorn bush which was in Lebanon sent to the cedar which was in Lebanon, saying, ‘Give your daughter to my son in marriage.’ But there passed by a wild beast that was in Lebanon, and trampled the thorn bush. 
          10      “You have indeed defeated Edom, and your heart has become proud. Enjoy your glory and stay at home; for why should you provoke trouble so that you, even you, would fall, and Judah with you?” 
          11      But Amaziah would not listen. So Jehoash king of Israel went up; and he and Amaziah king of Judah faced each other at Beth-shemesh, which belongs to Judah. 
          12      Judah was defeated by Israel, and they fled each to his tent. 
          13      Then Jehoash king of Israel captured Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Jehoash the son of Ahaziah, at Beth-shemesh, and came to Jerusalem and tore down the wall of Jerusalem from the Gate of Ephraim to the Corner Gate, 400 cubits. 
          14      He took all the gold and silver and all the utensils which were found in the house of the LORD, and in the treasuries of the king’s house, the hostages also, and returned to Samaria. 

Jeroboam II Succeeds Jehoash in Israel

          15      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Jehoash which he did, and his might and how he fought with Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Israel? 
          16      So Jehoash slept with his fathers and was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel; and Jeroboam his son became king in his place. 

Azariah (Uzziah) Succeeds Amaziah in Judah

          17      Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived fifteen years after the death of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel. 
          18      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Amaziah, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Judah? 
          19      They conspired against him in Jerusalem, and he fled to Lachish; but they sent after him to Lachish and killed him there. 
          20      Then they brought him on horses and he was buried at Jerusalem with his fathers in the city of David. 
          21      All the people of Judah took Azariah, who was sixteen years old, and made him king in the place of his father Amaziah. 
          22      He built Elath and restored it to Judah after the king slept with his fathers. 
          23      In the fifteenth year of Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah, Jeroboam the son of Joash king of Israel became king in Samaria, and reigned forty-one years. 
          24      He did evil in the sight of the LORD; he did not depart from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel sin. 
          25      He restored the border of Israel from the entrance of Hamath as far as the Sea of the Arabah, according to the word (davar) of the LORD, the God of Israel, which He spoke through His servant Jonah the son of Amittai, the prophet, who was of Gath-hepher. 
          26      For the LORD saw the affliction of Israel, which was very bitter; for there was neither bond nor free, nor was there any helper for Israel. 
          27      The LORD did not say that He would blot out the name of Israel from under heaven, but He saved them by the hand of Jeroboam the son of Joash. 

Zechariah Reigns over Israel

          28      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Jeroboam and all that he did and his might, how he fought and how he recovered for Israel, Damascus and Hamath, which had belonged to Judah, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Israel? 
          29      And Jeroboam slept with his fathers, even with the kings of Israel, and Zechariah his son became king in his place. 




Chapter 15


Series of Kings: Azariah (Uzziah) over Judah

          1      In the twenty-seventh year of Jeroboam king of Israel, Azariah son of Amaziah king of Judah became king. 
          2      He was sixteen years old when he became king, and he reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Jecoliah of Jerusalem. 
          3      He did right in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his father Amaziah had done. 
          4      Only the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. 
          5      The LORD struck the king, so that he was a leper to the day of his death. And he lived in a separate house, while Jotham the king’s son was over the household, judging the people of the land (erets). 
          6      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Azariah and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Judah? 
          7      And Azariah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the city of David, and Jotham his son became king in his place. 

Zechariah over Israel

          8      In the thirty-eighth year of Azariah king of Judah, Zechariah the son of Jeroboam became king over Israel in Samaria for six months. 
          9      He did evil in the sight of the LORD, as his fathers had done; he did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel sin. 
          10      Then Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against him and struck him before the people and killed him, and reigned in his place. 
          11      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Zechariah, behold they are written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Israel. 
          12      This is the word (davar) of the LORD which He spoke to Jehu, saying, “Your sons to the fourth generation shall sit on the throne of Israel.” And so it was. 
          13      Shallum son of Jabesh became king in the thirty-ninth year of Uzziah king of Judah, and he reigned one month in Samaria. 
          14      Then Menahem son of Gadi went up from Tirzah and came to Samaria, and struck Shallum son of Jabesh in Samaria, and killed him and became king in his place. 
          15      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Shallum and his conspiracy which he made, behold they are written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Israel. 
          16      Then Menahem struck Tiphsah and all who were in it and its borders from Tirzah, because they did not open to him; therefore he struck it and ripped up all its women who were with child. 

Menahem over Israel

          17      In the thirty-ninth year of Azariah king of Judah, Menahem son of Gadi became king over Israel and reigned ten years in Samaria. 
          18      He did evil in the sight of the LORD; he did not depart all his days from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel sin. 
          19      Pul, king of Assyria, came against the land (erets), and Menahem gave Pul a thousand talents of silver so that his hand might be with him to strengthen the kingdom under his rule. 
          20      Then Menahem exacted the money from Israel, even from all the mighty men of wealth, from each man fifty shekels of silver to pay the king of Assyria. So the king of Assyria returned and did not remain there in the land (erets). 
          21      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Menahem and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Israel? 
          22      And Menahem slept with his fathers, and Pekahiah his son became king in his place. 

Pekahiah over Israel

          23      In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekahiah son of Menahem became king over Israel in Samaria, and reigned two years. 
          24      He did evil in the sight of the LORD; he did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which he made Israel sin. 
          25      Then Pekah son of Remaliah, his officer, conspired against him and struck him in Samaria, in the castle of the king’s house with Argob and Arieh; and with him were fifty men of the Gileadites, and he killed him and became king in his place. 
          26      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Pekahiah and all that he did, behold they are written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Israel. 

Pekah over Israel

          27      In the fifty-second year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekah son of Remaliah became king over Israel in Samaria, and reigned twenty years. 
          28      He did evil in the sight of the LORD; he did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, which he made Israel sin. 
          29      In the days of Pekah king of Israel, Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria came and captured Ijon and Abel-beth-maacah and Janoah and Kedesh and Hazor and Gilead and Galilee, all the land (erets) of Naphtali; and he carried them captive to Assyria. 
          30      And Hoshea the son of Elah made a conspiracy against Pekah the son of Remaliah, and struck him and put him to death and became king in his place, in the twentieth year of Jotham the son of Uzziah. 
          31      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Pekah and all that he did, behold, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Israel. 

Jotham over Judah

          32      In the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliah king of Israel, Jotham the son of Uzziah king of Judah became king. 
          33      He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Jerusha the daughter of Zadok. 
          34      He did what was right in the sight of the LORD; he did according to all that his father Uzziah had done. 
          35      Only the high places were not taken away; the people still sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. He built the upper gate of the house of the LORD. 
          36      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Jotham and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Judah? 
          37      In those days the LORD began to send Rezin king of Aram and Pekah the son of Remaliah against Judah. 
          38      And Jotham slept with his fathers, and he was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father; and Ahaz his son became king in his place. 




Chapter 16


Ahaz Reigns over Judah

          1      In the seventeenth year of Pekah the son of Remaliah, Ahaz the son of Jotham, king of Judah, became king. 
          2      Ahaz was twenty years old when he became king, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem; and he did not do what was right in the sight of the LORD his God, as his father David had done. 
          3      But he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, and even made his son pass through the fire, according to the abominations of the nations whom the LORD had driven out from before the sons of Israel. 
          4      He sacrificed and burned incense on the high places and on the hills and under every green tree. 
          5      Then Rezin king of Aram and Pekah son of Remaliah, king of Israel, came up to Jerusalem to wage war; and they besieged Ahaz, but could not overcome him. 
          6      At that time Rezin king of Aram recovered Elath for Aram, and cleared the Judeans out of Elath entirely; and the Arameans came to Elath and have lived there to this day. 

Ahaz Seeks Help of Aram

          7      So Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria, saying, “I am your servant and your son; come up and deliver me from the hand of the king of Aram and from the hand of the king of Israel, who are rising up against me.” 
          8      Ahaz took the silver and gold that was found in the house of the LORD and in the treasuries of the king’s house, and sent a present to the king of Assyria. 
          9      So the king of Assyria listened to him; and the king of Assyria went up against Damascus and captured it, and carried the people of it away into exile to Kir, and put Rezin to death. 

Damascus Falls

          10      Now King Ahaz went to Damascus to meet Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria, and saw the altar which was at Damascus; and King Ahaz sent to Urijah the priest the pattern of the altar and its model, according to all its workmanship. 
          11      So Urijah the priest built an altar; according to all that King Ahaz had sent from Damascus, thus Urijah the priest made it, before the coming of King Ahaz from Damascus. 
          12      When the king came from Damascus, the king saw the altar; then the king approached the altar and went up to it, 
          13      and burned his burnt offering and his meal offering, and poured his drink offering and sprinkled the blood of his peace offerings on the altar. 
          14      The bronze altar, which was before the LORD, he brought from the front of the house, from between his altar and the house of the LORD, and he put it on the north side of his altar. 
          15      Then King Ahaz commanded Urijah the priest, saying, “Upon the great altar burn the morning burnt offering and the evening meal offering and the king’s burnt offering and his meal offering, with the burnt offering of all the people of the land (erets) and their meal offering and their drink offerings; and sprinkle on it all the blood of the burnt offering and all the blood of the sacrifice. But the bronze altar shall be for me to inquire by.” 
          16      So Urijah the priest did according to all that King Ahaz commanded. 
          17      Then King Ahaz cut off the borders of the stands, and removed the laver from them; he also took down the sea from the bronze oxen which were under it and put it on a pavement of stone. 
          18      The covered way for the sabbath which they had built in the house, and the outer entry of the king, he removed from the house of the LORD because of the king of Assyria. 

Hezekiah Reigns over Judah

          19      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Ahaz which he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Judah? 
          20      So Ahaz slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David; and his son Hezekiah reigned in his place. 




Chapter 17


Hoshea Reigns over Israel

          1      In the twelfth year of Ahaz king of Judah, Hoshea the son of Elah became king over Israel in Samaria, and reigned nine years. 
          2      He did evil in the sight of the LORD, only not as the kings of Israel who were before him. 
          3      Shalmaneser king of Assyria came up against him, and Hoshea became his servant and paid him tribute. 
          4      But the king of Assyria found conspiracy in Hoshea, who had sent messengers to So king of Egypt and had offered no tribute to the king of Assyria, as he had done year by year; so the king of Assyria shut him up and bound him in prison. 
          5      Then the king of Assyria invaded the whole land (erets) and went up to Samaria and besieged it three years. 

Israel Captive

          6      In the ninth year of Hoshea, the king of Assyria captured Samaria and carried Israel away into exile to Assyria, and settled them in Halah and Habor, on the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes. 

Why Israel Fell

          7      Now this came about because the sons of Israel had sinned against the LORD their God, who had brought them up from the land (erets) of Egypt from under the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and they had feared other gods 
          8      and walked in the customs of the nations whom the LORD had driven out before the sons of Israel, and in the customs of the kings of Israel which they had introduced. 
          9      The sons of Israel did things (davar) secretly which were not right against the LORD their God. Moreover, they built for themselves high places in all their towns, from watchtower to fortified city. 
          10      They set for themselves sacred pillars and Asherim on every high hill and under every green tree, 
          11      and there they burned incense on all the high places as the nations did which the LORD had carried away to exile before them; and they did evil things (davar) provoking the LORD. 
          12      They served idols, concerning which the LORD had said to them, “You shall not do this thing (davar).” 
          13      Yet the LORD warned Israel and Judah through all His prophets and every seer, saying, “Turn from your evil ways and keep My commandments (mitsvah), My statutes according to all the law (torah) which I commanded your fathers, and which I sent to you through My servants the prophets.” 
          14      However, they did not listen, but stiffened their neck like their fathers, who did not believe in the LORD their God. 
          15      They rejected His statutes (hoq) and His covenant which He made with their fathers and His warnings (eduth) with which He warned them. And they followed vanity (hevel) and became vain, and went after the nations which surrounded them, concerning which the LORD had commanded them not to do like them. 
          16      They forsook all the commandments (mitsvah) of the LORD their God and made for themselves molten images, even two calves, and made an Asherah and worshiped all the host of heaven and served Baal. 
          17      Then they made their sons and their daughters pass through the fire, and practiced divination and enchantments, and sold themselves to do evil in the sight of the LORD, provoking Him. 
          18      So the LORD was very angry with Israel and removed them from His sight; none was left except the tribe of Judah. 
          19      Also Judah did not keep the commandments (mitsvah) of the LORD their God, but walked in the customs which Israel had introduced. 
          20      The LORD rejected all the descendants of Israel and afflicted them and gave them into the hand of plunderers, until He had cast them out of His sight. 
          21      When He had torn Israel from the house of David, they made Jeroboam the son of Nebat king. Then Jeroboam drove Israel away from following the LORD and made them commit a great sin. 
          22      The sons of Israel walked in all the sins of Jeroboam which he did; they did not depart from them 
          23      until the LORD removed Israel from His sight, as He spoke through all His servants the prophets. So Israel was carried away into exile from their own land to Assyria until this day. 

Cities of Israel Filled with Strangers

          24      The king of Assyria brought men from Babylon and from Cuthah and from Avva and from Hamath and Sephar-vaim, and settled them in the cities of Samaria in place of the sons of Israel. So they possessed Samaria and lived in its cities. 
          25      At the beginning of their living there, they did not fear the LORD; therefore the LORD sent lions among them which killed some of them. 
          26      So they spoke to the king of Assyria, saying, “The nations whom you have carried away into exile in the cities of Samaria do not know the custom (mishphat) of the god of the land (erets); so he has sent lions among them, and behold, they kill them because they do not know the custom (mishphat) of the god of the land (erets).” 
          27      Then the king of Assyria commanded, saying, “Take there one of the priests whom you carried away into exile and let him go and live there; and let him teach them the custom (mishphat) of the god of the land (erets).” 
          28      So one of the priests whom they had carried away into exile from Samaria came and lived at Bethel, and taught them how they should fear the LORD. 
          29      But every nation still made gods of its own and put them in the houses of the high places which the people of Samaria had made, every nation in their cities in which they lived. 
          30      The men of Babylon made Succoth-benoth, the men of Cuth made Nergal, the men of Hamath made Ashima, 
          31      and the Avvites made Nibhaz and Tartak; and the Sepharvites burned their children in the fire to Adrammelech and Anammelech the gods of Sepharvaim. 
          32      They also feared the LORD and appointed from among themselves priests of the high places, who acted for them in the houses of the high places. 
          33      They feared the LORD and served their own gods according to the custom (mishphat) of the nations from among whom they had been carried away into exile. 
          34      To this day they do according to the earlier customs (mishphat): they do not fear the LORD, nor do they follow their statutes or their ordinances (mishphat) or the law (torah), or the commandments (mitsvah) which the LORD commanded the sons of Jacob, whom He named Israel; 
          35      with whom the LORD made a covenant and commanded them, saying, “You shall not fear other gods, nor bow down yourselves to them nor serve them nor sacrifice to them. 
          36      “But the LORD, who brought you up from the land (erets) of Egypt with great power and with an outstretched arm, Him you shall fear, and to Him you shall bow yourselves down, and to Him you shall sacrifice. 
          37      “The statutes (hoq) and the ordinances (mishphat) and the law (torah) and the commandment (mitsvah) which He wrote for you, you shall observe to do forever; and you shall not fear other gods. 
          38      “The covenant that I have made with you, you shall not forget, nor shall you fear other gods. 
          39      “But the LORD your God you shall fear; and He will deliver you from the hand of all your enemies.” 
          40      However, they did not listen, but they did according to their earlier custom (mishphat). 
          41      So while these nations feared the LORD, they also served their idols; their children likewise and their grandchildren, as their fathers did, so they do to this day. 




Chapter 18


Hezekiah Reigns over Judah

          1      Now it came about in the third year of Hoshea, the son of Elah king of Israel, that Hezekiah the son of Ahaz king of Judah became king. 
          2      He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Abi the daughter of Zechariah. 
          3      He did right in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his father David had done. 
          4      He removed the high places and broke down the sacred pillars and cut down the Asherah. He also broke in pieces the bronze serpent that Moses had made, for until those days the sons of Israel burned incense to it; and it was called Nehushtan. 
          5      He trusted in the LORD, the God of Israel; so that after him there was none like him among all the kings of Judah, nor among those who were before him. 
          6      For he clung to the LORD; he did not depart from following Him, but kept His commandments (mitsvah), which the LORD had commanded Moses. 

Hezekiah Victorious

          7      And the LORD was with him; wherever he went he prospered. And he rebelled against the king of Assyria and did not serve him. 
          8      He defeated the Philistines as far as Gaza and its territory, from watchtower to fortified city. 
          9      Now in the fourth year of King Hezekiah, which was the seventh year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, Shalmaneser king of Assyria came up against Samaria and besieged it. 
          10      At the end of three years they captured it; in the sixth year of Hezekiah, which was the ninth year of Hoshea king of Israel, Samaria was captured. 
          11      Then the king of Assyria carried Israel away into exile to Assyria, and put them in Halah and on the Habor, the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes, 
          12      because they did not obey the voice of the LORD their God, but transgressed His covenant, even all that Moses the servant of the LORD commanded; they would neither listen nor do it. 

Invasion of Judah

          13      Now in the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah, Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the fortified cities of Judah and seized them. 
          14      Then Hezekiah king of Judah sent to the king of Assyria at Lachish, saying, “I have done wrong. Withdraw from me; whatever you impose on me I will bear.” So the king of Assyria required of Hezekiah king of Judah three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold. 
          15      Hezekiah gave him all the silver which was found in the house of the LORD, and in the treasuries of the king’s house. 
          16      At that time Hezekiah cut off the gold from the doors of the temple of the LORD, and from the doorposts which Hezekiah king of Judah had overlaid, and gave it to the king of Assyria. 
          17      Then the king of Assyria sent Tartan and Rab-saris and Rabshakeh from Lachish to King Hezekiah with a large army to Jerusalem. So they went up and came to Jerusalem. And when they went up, they came and stood by the conduit of the upper pool, which is on the highway of the fuller’s field. 
          18      When they called to the king, Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebnah the scribe and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder, came out to them. 
          19      Then Rabshakeh said to them, “Say now to Hezekiah, ‘Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria, “What is this confidence that you have? 
          20      “You say (but they are only empty words (davar)), ‘I have counsel and strength for the war.’ Now on whom do you rely, that you have rebelled against me? 
          21      “Now behold, you rely on the staff of this crushed reed, even on Egypt; on which if a man leans, it will go into his hand and pierce it. So is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all who rely on him. 
          22      “But if you say to me, ‘We trust in the LORD our God,’ is it not He whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah has taken away, and has said to Judah and to Jerusalem, ‘You shall worship before this altar in Jerusalem’? 
          23      “Now therefore, come, make a bargain with my master the king of Assyria, and I will give you two thousand horses, if you are able on your part to set riders on them. 
          24      “How then can you repulse one official of the least of my master’s servants, and rely on Egypt for chariots and for horsemen? 
          25      “Have I now come up without the LORD’S approval against this place to destroy it? The LORD said to me, ‘Go up against this land (erets) and destroy it.’ ” ’ ” 
          26      Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, and Shebnah and Joah, said to Rabshakeh, “Speak now to your servants in Aramaic, for we understand it; and do not speak with us in Judean in the hearing of the people who are on the wall.” 
          27      But Rabshakeh said to them, “Has my master sent me only to your master and to you to speak these words (davar), and not to the men who sit on the wall, doomed to eat their own dung and drink their own urine with you?” 
          28      Then Rabshakeh stood and cried with a loud voice in Judean, saying, “Hear the word (davar) of the great king, the king of Assyria. 
          29      “Thus says the king, ‘Do not let Hezekiah deceive you, for he will not be able to deliver you from my hand; 
          30      nor let Hezekiah make you trust in the LORD, saying, “The LORD will surely deliver us, and this city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.” 
          31      ‘Do not listen to Hezekiah, for thus says the king of Assyria, “Make your peace with me and come out to me, and eat each of his vine and each of his fig tree and drink each of the waters of his own cistern, 
          32      until I come and take you away to a land (erets) like your own land (erets), a land (erets) of grain and new wine, a land (erets) of bread and vineyards, a land (erets) of olive trees and honey, that you may live and not die.” But do not listen to Hezekiah when he misleads you, saying, “The LORD will deliver us.” 
          33      ‘Has any one of the gods of the nations delivered his land (erets) from the hand of the king of Assyria? 
          34      ‘Where are the gods of Hamath and Arpad? Where are the gods of Sepharvaim, Hena and Ivvah? Have they delivered Samaria from my hand? 
          35      ‘Who among all the gods of the lands (erets) have delivered their land (erets) from my hand, that the LORD should deliver Jerusalem from my hand?’ ” 
          36      But the people were silent and answered him not a word (davar), for the king’s commandment (mitsvah) was, “Do not answer him.” 
          37      Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder, came to Hezekiah with their clothes torn and told him the words (davar) of Rabshakeh. 




Chapter 19


Isaiah Encourages Hezekiah

          1      And when King Hezekiah heard it, he tore his clothes, covered himself with sackcloth and entered the house of the LORD. 
          2      Then he sent Eliakim who was over the household with Shebna the scribe and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz. 
          3      They said to him, “Thus says Hezekiah, ‘This day is a day of distress, rebuke, and rejection; for children have come to birth and there is no strength to deliver. 
          4      ‘Perhaps the LORD your God will hear all the words (davar) of Rabshakeh, whom his master the king of Assyria has sent to reproach the living God, and will rebuke the words (davar) which the LORD your God has heard. Therefore, offer a prayer for the remnant that is left.’ ” 
          5      So the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah. 
          6      Isaiah said to them, “Thus you shall say to your master, ‘Thus says the LORD, “Do not be afraid because of the words (davar) that you have heard, with which the servants of the king of Assyria have blasphemed Me. 
          7      “Behold, I will put a spirit in him so that he will hear a rumor and return to his own land (erets). And I will make him fall by the sword in his own land (erets).” ’ ” 

Sennacherib Defies God

          8      Then Rabshakeh returned and found the king of Assyria fighting against Libnah, for he had heard that the king had left Lachish. 
          9      When he heard them say concerning Tirhakah king of Cush, “Behold, he has come out to fight against you,” he sent messengers again to Hezekiah saying, 
          10      “Thus you shall say to Hezekiah king of Judah, ‘Do not let your God in whom you trust deceive you saying, “Jerusalem will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.” 
          11      ‘Behold, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all the lands (erets), destroying them completely. So will you be spared? 
          12      ‘Did the gods of those nations which my fathers destroyed deliver them, even Gozan and Haran and Rezeph and the sons of Eden who were in Telassar? 
          13      ‘Where is the king of Hamath, the king of Arpad, the king of the city of Sepharvaim, and of Hena and Ivvah?’ ” 

Hezekiah’s Prayer

          14      Then Hezekiah took the letter from the hand of the messengers and read it, and he went up to the house of the LORD and spread it out before the LORD. 
          15      Hezekiah prayed before the LORD and said, “O LORD, the God of Israel, who are enthroned above the cherubim, You are the God, You alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth (erets). You have made heaven and earth (erets). 
          16      “Incline Your ear, O LORD, and hear; open Your eyes, O LORD, and see; and listen to the words (davar) of Sennacherib, which he has sent to reproach the living God. 
          17      “Truly, O LORD, the kings of Assyria have devastated the nations and their lands (erets) 
          18      and have cast their gods into the fire, for they were not gods but the work of men’s (adam) hands, wood and stone. So they have destroyed them. 
          19      “Now, O LORD our God, I pray, deliver us from his hand that all the kingdoms of the earth (erets) may know that You alone, O LORD, are God.” 

God’s Answer through Isaiah

          20      Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah saying, “Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, ‘Because you have prayed to Me about Sennacherib king of Assyria, I have heard you.’ 
          21      “This is the word (davar) that the LORD has spoken against him: 
         ‘She has despised you and mocked you, 
         The virgin daughter of Zion; 
         She has shaken her head behind you, 
         The daughter of Jerusalem! 
               22      ‘Whom have you reproached and blasphemed? 
         And against whom have you raised your voice, 
         And haughtily lifted up your eyes? 
         Against the Holy One of Israel! 
               23      ‘Through your messengers you have reproached the Lord, 
         And you have said, “With my many chariots 
         I came up to the heights of the mountains, 
         To the remotest parts of Lebanon; 
         And I cut down its tall cedars and its choice cypresses. 
         And I entered its farthest lodging place, its thickest forest. 
               24      “I dug wells and drank foreign waters, 
         And with the sole of my feet I dried up 
         All the rivers of Egypt.” 

               25      ‘Have you not heard? 
         Long ago I did it; 
         From ancient times I planned it. 
         Now I have brought it to pass, 
         That you should turn fortified cities into ruinous heaps. 
               26      ‘Therefore their inhabitants were short of strength, 
         They were dismayed and put to shame; 
         They were as the vegetation of the field and as the green herb, 
         As grass on the housetops is scorched before it is grown up. 
               27      ‘But I know your sitting down, 
         And your going out and your coming in, 
         And your raging against Me. 
               28      ‘Because of your raging against Me, 
         And because your arrogance has come up to My ears, 
         Therefore I will put My hook in your nose, 
         And My bridle in your lips, 
         And I will turn you back by the way which you came. 
          29      ‘Then this shall be the sign for you: you will eat this year what grows of itself, in the second year what springs from the same, and in the third year sow, reap, plant vineyards, and eat their fruit. 
          30      ‘The surviving remnant of the house of Judah will again take root downward and bear fruit upward. 
          31      ‘For out of Jerusalem will go forth a remnant, and out of Mount Zion survivors. The zeal of the LORD will perform this. 
          32      ‘Therefore thus says the LORD concerning the king of Assyria, “He will not come to this city or shoot an arrow there; and he will not come before it with a shield or throw up a siege ramp against it. 
          33      “By the way that he came, by the same he will return, and he shall not come to this city,” ’ declares the LORD. 
          34      ‘For I will defend this city to save it for My own sake and for My servant David’s sake.’ ” 
          35      Then it happened that night that the angel of the LORD went out and struck 185,000 in the camp of the Assyrians; and when men rose early in the morning, behold, all of them were dead. 
          36      So Sennacherib king of Assyria departed and returned home, and lived at Nineveh. 
          37      It came about as he was worshiping in the house of Nisroch his god, that Adrammelech and Sharezer killed him with the sword; and they escaped into the land (erets) of Ararat. And Esarhaddon his son became king in his place. 




Chapter 20


Hezekiah’s Illness and Recovery

          1      In those days Hezekiah became mortally ill. And Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz came to him and said to him, “Thus says the LORD, ‘Set your house in order, for you shall die and not live.’ ” 
          2      Then he turned his face to the wall and prayed to the LORD, saying, 
          3      “Remember now, O LORD, I beseech You, how I have walked before You in truth and with a whole heart and have done what is good in Your sight.” And Hezekiah wept bitterly. 
          4      Before Isaiah had gone out of the middle court, the word (davar) of the LORD came to him, saying, 
          5      “Return and say to Hezekiah the leader of My people, ‘Thus says the LORD, the God of your father David, “I have heard your prayer, I have seen your tears; behold, I will heal you. On the third day you shall go up to the house of the LORD. 
          6      “I will add fifteen years to your life, and I will deliver you and this city from the hand of the king of Assyria; and I will defend this city for My own sake and for My servant David’s sake.” ’ ” 
          7      Then Isaiah said, “Take a cake of figs.” And they took and laid it on the boil, and he recovered. 
          8      Now Hezekiah said to Isaiah, “What will be the sign that the LORD will heal me, and that I shall go up to the house of the LORD the third day?” 
          9      Isaiah said, “This shall be the sign to you from the LORD, that the LORD will do the thing (davar) that He has spoken: shall the shadow go forward ten steps or go back ten steps?” 
          10      So Hezekiah answered, “It is easy for the shadow to decline ten steps; no, but let the shadow turn backward ten steps.” 
          11      Isaiah the prophet cried to the LORD, and He brought the shadow on the stairway back ten steps by which it had gone down on the stairway of Ahaz. 

Hezekiah Shows Babylon His Treasures

          12      At that time Berodach-baladan a son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent letters and a present to Hezekiah, for he heard that Hezekiah had been sick. 
          13      Hezekiah listened to them, and showed them all his treasure house, the silver and the gold and the spices and the precious oil and the house of his armor and all that was found in his treasuries. There was nothing (davar) in his house nor in all his dominion that Hezekiah did not show them. 
          14      Then Isaiah the prophet came to King Hezekiah and said to him, “What did these men say, and from where have they come to you?” And Hezekiah said, “They have come from a far country (erets), from Babylon.” 
          15      He said, “What have they seen in your house?” So Hezekiah answered, “They have seen all that is in my house; there is nothing (davar) among my treasuries that I have not shown them.” 
          16      Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, “Hear the word (davar) of the LORD. 
          17      ‘Behold, the days are coming when all that is in your house, and all that your fathers have laid up in store to this day will be carried to Babylon; nothing (davar) shall be left,’ says the LORD. 
          18      ‘Some of your sons who shall issue from you, whom you will beget, will be taken away; and they will become officials in the palace of the king of Babylon.’ ” 
          19      Then Hezekiah said to Isaiah, “The word (davar) of the LORD which you have spoken is good.” For he thought, “Is it not so, if there will be peace and truth in my days?” 
          20      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Hezekiah and all his might, and how he made the pool and the conduit and brought water into the city, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Judah? 
          21      So Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and Manasseh his son became king in his place. 




Chapter 21


Manasseh Succeeds Hezekiah

          1      Manasseh was twelve years old when he became king, and he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Hephzibah. 
          2      He did evil in the sight of the LORD, according to the abominations of the nations whom the LORD dispossessed before the sons of Israel. 
          3      For he rebuilt the high places which Hezekiah his father had destroyed; and he erected altars for Baal and made an Asherah, as Ahab king of Israel had done, and worshiped all the host of heaven and served them. 
          4      He built altars in the house of the LORD, of which the LORD had said, “In Jerusalem I will put My name.” 
          5      For he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courts of the house of the LORD. 
          6      He made his son pass through the fire, practiced witchcraft and used divination, and dealt with mediums and spiritists. He did much evil in the sight of the LORD provoking Him to anger. 
          7      Then he set the carved image of Asherah that he had made, in the house of which the LORD said to David and to his son Solomon, “In this house and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen from all the tribes of Israel, I will put My name forever. 
          8      “And I will not make the feet of Israel wander anymore from the land (adama) which I gave their fathers, if only they will observe to do according to all that I have commanded them, and according to all the law (torah) that My servant Moses commanded them.” 
          9      But they did not listen, and Manasseh seduced them to do evil more than the nations whom the LORD destroyed before the sons of Israel. 

The King’s Idolatries Rebuked

          10      Now the LORD spoke through His servants the prophets, saying, 
          11      “Because Manasseh king of Judah has done these abominations, having done wickedly more than all the Amorites did who were before him, and has also made Judah sin with his idols; 
          12      therefore thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, ‘Behold, I am bringing such calamity on Jerusalem and Judah, that whoever hears of it, both his ears will tingle. 
          13      ‘I will stretch over Jerusalem the line of Samaria and the plummet of the house of Ahab, and I will wipe Jerusalem as one wipes a dish, wiping it and turning it upside down. 
          14      ‘I will abandon the remnant of My inheritance and deliver them into the hand of their enemies, and they will become as plunder and spoil to all their enemies; 
          15      because they have done evil in My sight, and have been provoking Me to anger since the day their fathers came from Egypt, even to this day.’ ” 
          16      Moreover, Manasseh shed very much innocent blood until he had filled Jerusalem from one end to another; besides his sin with which he made Judah sin, in doing evil in the sight of the LORD. 
          17      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Manasseh and all that he did and his sin which he committed, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Judah? 
          18      And Manasseh slept with his fathers and was buried in the garden of his own house, in the garden of Uzza, and Amon his son became king in his place. 

Amon Succeeds Manasseh

          19      Amon was twenty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned two years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Meshullemeth the daughter of Haruz of Jotbah. 
          20      He did evil in the sight of the LORD, as Manasseh his father had done. 
          21      For he walked in all the way that his father had walked, and served the idols that his father had served and worshiped them. 
          22      So he forsook the LORD, the God of his fathers, and did not walk in the way of the LORD. 
          23      The servants of Amon conspired against him and killed the king in his own house. 
          24      Then the people of the land (erets) killed all those who had conspired against King Amon, and the people of the land (erets) made Josiah his son king in his place. 
          25      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Amon which he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Judah? 
          26      He was buried in his grave in the garden of Uzza, and Josiah his son became king in his place. 




Chapter 22


Josiah Succeeds Amon

          1      Josiah was eight years old when he became king, and he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Jedidah the daughter of Adaiah of Bozkath. 
          2      He did right in the sight of the LORD and walked in all the way of his father David, nor did he turn aside to the right or to the left. 
          3      Now in the eighteenth year of King Josiah, the king sent Shaphan, the son of Azaliah the son of Meshullam the scribe, to the house of the LORD saying, 
          4      “Go up to Hilkiah the high priest that he may count the money brought in to the house of the LORD which the doorkeepers have gathered from the people. 
          5      “Let them deliver it into the hand of the workmen who have the oversight of the house of the LORD, and let them give it to the workmen who are in the house of the LORD to repair the damages of the house, 
          6      to the carpenters and the builders and the masons and for buying timber and hewn stone to repair the house. 
          7      “Only no accounting shall be made with them for the money delivered into their hands, for they deal faithfully.” 

The Lost Book

          8      Then Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the scribe, “I have found the book of the law (torah) in the house of the LORD.” And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan who read it. 
          9      Shaphan the scribe came to the king and brought back word (davar) to the king and said, “Your servants have emptied out the money that was found in the house, and have delivered it into the hand of the workmen who have the oversight of the house of the LORD.” 
          10      Moreover, Shaphan the scribe told the king saying, “Hilkiah the priest has given me a book.” And Shaphan read it in the presence of the king. 
          11      When the king heard the words (davar) of the book of the law (torah), he tore his clothes. 
          12      Then the king commanded Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam the son of Shaphan, Achbor the son of Micaiah, Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah the king’s servant saying, 
          13      “Go, inquire of the LORD for me and the people and all Judah concerning the words (davar) of this book that has been found, for great is the wrath of the LORD that burns against us, because our fathers have not listened to the words (davar) of this book, to do according to all that is written concerning us.” 

Huldah Predicts

          14      So Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam, Achbor, Shaphan, and Asaiah went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tikvah, the son of Harhas, keeper of the wardrobe (now she lived in Jerusalem in the Second Quarter); and they spoke to her. 
          15      She said to them, “Thus says the LORD God of Israel, ‘Tell the man who sent you to me, 
          16      thus says the LORD, “Behold, I bring evil on this place and on its inhabitants, even all the words (davar) of the book which the king of Judah has read. 
          17      “Because they have forsaken Me and have burned incense to other gods that they might provoke Me to anger with all the work of their hands, therefore My wrath burns against this place, and it shall not be quenched.” ’ 
          18      “But to the king of Judah who sent you to inquire of the LORD thus shall you say to him, ‘Thus says the LORD God of Israel, “Regarding the words (davar) which you have heard, 
          19      because your heart was tender and you humbled yourself before the LORD when you heard what I spoke against this place and against its inhabitants that they should become a desolation and a curse, and you have torn your clothes and wept before Me, I truly have heard you,” declares the LORD. 
          20      “Therefore, behold, I will gather you to your fathers, and you will be gathered to your grave in peace, and your eyes will not see all the evil which I will bring on this place.” ’ ” So they brought back word (davar) to the king. 




Chapter 23


Josiah’s Covenant

          1      Then the king sent, and they gathered to him all the elders of Judah and of Jerusalem. 
          2      The king went up to the house of the LORD and all the men of Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem with him, and the priests and the prophets and all the people, both small and great; and he read in their hearing all the words (davar) of the book of the covenant which was found in the house of the LORD. 
          3      The king stood by the pillar and made a covenant before the LORD, to walk after the LORD, and to keep His commandments (mitsvah) and His testimonies (eduth) and His statutes with all his heart and all his soul, to carry out the words (davar) of this covenant that were written in this book. And all the people entered into the covenant. 

Reforms under Josiah

          4      Then the king commanded Hilkiah the high priest and the priests of the second order and the doorkeepers, to bring out of the temple of the LORD all the vessels that were made for Baal, for Asherah, and for all the host of heaven; and he burned them outside Jerusalem in the fields of the Kidron, and carried their ashes to Bethel. 
          5      He did away with the idolatrous priests whom the kings of Judah had appointed to burn incense in the high places in the cities of Judah and in the surrounding area of Jerusalem, also those who burned incense to Baal, to the sun and to the moon and to the constellations and to all the host of heaven. 
          6      He brought out the Asherah from the house of the LORD outside Jerusalem to the brook Kidron, and burned it at the brook Kidron, and ground it to dust, and threw its dust on the graves of the common people. 
          7      He also broke down the houses of the male cult prostitutes which were in the house of the LORD, where the women were weaving hangings for the Asherah. 
          8      Then he brought all the priests from the cities of Judah, and defiled the high places where the priests had burned incense, from Geba to Beersheba; and he broke down the high places of the gates which were at the entrance of the gate of Joshua the governor of the city, which were on one’s left at the city gate. 
          9      Nevertheless the priests of the high places did not go up to the altar of the LORD in Jerusalem, but they ate unleavened bread among their brothers. 
          10      He also defiled Topheth, which is in the valley of the son of Hinnom, that no man might make his son or his daughter pass through the fire for Molech. 
          11      He did away with the horses which the kings of Judah had given to the sun, at the entrance of the house of the LORD, by the chamber of Nathan-melech the official, which was in the precincts; and he burned the chariots of the sun with fire. 
          12      The altars which were on the roof, the upper chamber of Ahaz, which the kings of Judah had made, and the altars which Manasseh had made in the two courts of the house of the LORD, the king broke down; and he smashed them there and threw their dust into the brook Kidron. 
          13      The high places which were before Jerusalem, which were on the right of the mount of destruction which Solomon the king of Israel had built for Ashtoreth the abomination of the Sidonians, and for Chemosh the abomination of Moab, and for Milcom the abomination of the sons of Ammon, the king defiled. 
          14      He broke in pieces the sacred pillars and cut down the Asherim and filled their places with human (adam) bones. 
          15      Furthermore, the altar that was at Bethel and the high place which Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel sin, had made, even that altar and the high place he broke down. Then he demolished its stones, ground them to dust, and burned the Asherah. 
          16      Now when Josiah turned, he saw the graves that were there on the mountain, and he sent and took the bones from the graves and burned them on the altar and defiled it according to the word (davar) of the LORD which the man of God proclaimed, who proclaimed these things (davar). 
          17      Then he said, “What is this monument that I see?” And the men of the city told him, “It is the grave of the man of God who came from Judah and proclaimed these things (davar) which you have done against the altar of Bethel.” 
          18      He said, “Let him alone; let no one disturb his bones.” So they left his bones undisturbed with the bones of the prophet who came from Samaria. 
          19      Josiah also removed all the houses of the high places which were in the cities of Samaria, which the kings of Israel had made provoking the LORD; and he did to them just as he had done in Bethel. 
          20      All the priests of the high places who were there he slaughtered on the altars and burned human (adam) bones on them; then he returned to Jerusalem. 

Passover Reinstituted

          21      Then the king commanded all the people saying, “Celebrate the Passover to the LORD your God as it is written in this book of the covenant.” 
          22      Surely such a Passover had not been celebrated from the days of the judges who judged Israel, nor in all the days of the kings of Israel and of the kings of Judah. 
          23      But in the eighteenth year of King Josiah, this Passover was observed to the LORD in Jerusalem. 
          24      Moreover, Josiah removed the mediums and the spiritists and the teraphim and the idols and all the abominations that were seen in the land (erets) of Judah and in Jerusalem, that he might confirm the words (davar) of the law (torah) which were written in the book that Hilkiah the priest found in the house of the LORD. 
          25      Before him there was no king like him who turned to the LORD with all his heart and with all his soul and with all his might, according to all the law (torah) of Moses; nor did any like him arise after him. 
          26      However, the LORD did not turn from the fierceness of His great wrath with which His anger burned against Judah, because of all the provocations with which Manasseh had provoked Him. 
          27      The LORD said, “I will remove Judah also from My sight, as I have removed Israel. And I will cast off Jerusalem, this city which I have chosen, and the temple of which I said, ‘My name shall be there.’ ” 

Jehoahaz Succeeds Josiah

          28      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Josiah and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Judah? 
          29      In his days Pharaoh Neco king of Egypt went up to the king of Assyria to the river Euphrates. And King Josiah went to meet him, and when Pharaoh Neco saw him he killed him at Megiddo. 
          30      His servants drove his body in a chariot from Megiddo, and brought him to Jerusalem and buried him in his own tomb. Then the people of the land (erets) took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah and anointed him and made him king in place of his father. 
          31      Jehoahaz was twenty-three years old when he became king, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah. 
          32      He did evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his fathers had done. 
          33      Pharaoh Neco imprisoned him at Riblah in the land (erets) of Hamath, that he might not reign in Jerusalem; and he imposed on the land (erets) a fine of one hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold. 

Jehoiakim Made King by Pharaoh

          34      Pharaoh Neco made Eliakim the son of Josiah king in the place of Josiah his father, and changed his name to Jehoiakim. But he took Jehoahaz away and brought him to Egypt, and he died there. 
          35      So Jehoiakim gave the silver and gold to Pharaoh, but he taxed the land (erets) in order to give the money at the command of Pharaoh. He exacted the silver and gold from the people of the land (erets), each according to his valuation, to give it to Pharaoh Neco. 
          36      Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Zebidah the daughter of Pedaiah of Rumah. 
          37      He did evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his fathers had done. 




Chapter 24


Babylon Controls Jehoiakim

          1      In his days Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up, and Jehoiakim became his servant for three years; then he turned and rebelled against him. 
          2      The LORD sent against him bands of Chaldeans, bands of Arameans, bands of Moabites, and bands of Ammonites. So He sent them against Judah to destroy it, according to the word (davar) of the LORD which He had spoken through His servants the prophets. 
          3      Surely at the command of the LORD it came upon Judah, to remove them from His sight because of the sins of Manasseh, according to all that he had done, 
          4      and also for the innocent blood which he shed, for he filled Jerusalem with innocent blood; and the LORD would not forgive. 
          5      Now the rest of the acts (davar) of Jehoiakim and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles (davar) of the Kings of Judah? 

Jehoiachin Reigns

          6      So Jehoiakim slept with his fathers, and Jehoiachin his son became king in his place. 
          7      The king of Egypt did not come out of his land (erets) again, for the king of Babylon had taken all that belonged to the king of Egypt from the brook of Egypt to the river Euphrates. 
          8      Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he became king, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Nehushta the daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem. 
          9      He did evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his father had done. 

Deportation to Babylon

          10      At that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon went up to Jerusalem, and the city came under siege. 
          11      And Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon came to the city, while his servants were besieging it. 
          12      Jehoiachin the king of Judah went out to the king of Babylon, he and his mother and his servants and his captains and his officials. So the king of Babylon took him captive in the eighth year of his reign. 
          13      He carried out from there all the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the king’s house, and cut in pieces all the vessels of gold which Solomon king of Israel had made in the temple of the LORD, just as the LORD had said. 
          14      Then he led away into exile all Jerusalem and all the captains and all the mighty men of valor, ten thousand captives, and all the craftsmen and the smiths. None remained except the poorest people of the land (erets). 
          15      So he led Jehoiachin away into exile to Babylon; also the king’s mother and the king’s wives and his officials and the leading men of the land (erets), he led away into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon. 
          16      All the men of valor, seven thousand, and the craftsmen and the smiths, one thousand, all strong and fit for war, and these the king of Babylon brought into exile to Babylon. 

Zedekiah Made King

          17      Then the king of Babylon made his uncle Mattaniah king in his place, and changed his name to Zedekiah. 
          18      Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah. 
          19      He did evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that Jehoiakim had done. 
          20      For through the anger of the LORD this came about in Jerusalem and Judah until He cast them out from His presence. And Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon. 




Chapter 25


Nebuchadnezzar Besieges Jerusalem

          1      Now in the ninth year of his reign, on the tenth day of the tenth month, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came, he and all his army, against Jerusalem, camped against it and built a siege wall all around it. 
          2      So the city was under siege until the eleventh year of King Zedekiah. 
          3      On the ninth day of the fourth month the famine was so severe in the city that there was no food for the people of the land (erets). 
          4      Then the city was broken into, and all the men of war fled by night by way of the gate between the two walls beside the king’s garden, though the Chaldeans were all around the city. And they went by way of the Arabah. 
          5      But the army of the Chaldeans pursued the king and overtook him in the plains of Jericho and all his army was scattered from him. 
          6      Then they captured the king and brought him to the king of Babylon at Riblah, and he passed sentence (mishphat) on him. 
          7      They slaughtered the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes, then put out the eyes of Zedekiah and bound him with bronze fetters and brought him to Babylon. 

Jerusalem Burned and Plundered

          8      Now on the seventh day of the fifth month, which was the nineteenth year of King Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard, a servant of the king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem. 
          9      He burned the house of the LORD, the king’s house, and all the houses of Jerusalem; even every great house he burned with fire. 
          10      So all the army of the Chaldeans who were with the captain of the guard broke down the walls around Jerusalem. 
          11      Then the rest of the people who were left in the city and the deserters who had deserted to the king of Babylon and the rest of the people, Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away into exile. 
          12      But the captain of the guard left some of the poorest of the land (erets) to be vinedressers and plowmen. 
          13      Now the bronze pillars which were in the house of the LORD, and the stands and the bronze sea which were in the house of the LORD, the Chaldeans broke in pieces and carried the bronze to Babylon. 
          14      They took away the pots, the shovels, the snuffers, the spoons, and all the bronze vessels which were used in temple service. 
          15      The captain of the guard also took away the firepans and the basins, what was fine gold and what was fine silver. 
          16      The two pillars, the one sea, and the stands which Solomon had made for the house of the LORD—the bronze of all these vessels was beyond weight. 
          17      The height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits, and a bronze capital was on it; the height of the capital was three cubits, with a network and pomegranates on the capital all around, all of bronze. And the second pillar was like these with network. 
          18      Then the captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest and Zephaniah the second priest, with the three officers of the temple. 
          19      From the city he took one official who was overseer of the men of war, and five of the king’s advisers who were found in the city; and the scribe of the captain of the army who mustered the people of the land (erets); and sixty men of the people of the land (erets) who were found in the city. 
          20      Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took them and brought them to the king of Babylon at Riblah. 
          21      Then the king of Babylon struck them down and put them to death at Riblah in the land (erets) of Hamath. So Judah was led away into exile from its land. 

Gedaliah Made Governor

          22      Now as for the people who were left in the land (erets) of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had left, he appointed Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan over them. 
          23      When all the captains of the forces, they and their men, heard that the king of Babylon had appointed Gedaliah governor, they came to Gedaliah to Mizpah, namely, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and Johanan the son of Kareah, and Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite, and Jaazaniah the son of the Maacathite, they and their men. 
          24      Gedaliah swore to them and their men and said to them, “Do not be afraid of the servants of the Chaldeans; live in the land (erets) and serve the king of Babylon, and it will be well with you.” 
          25      But it came about in the seventh month, that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of the royal family, came with ten men and struck Gedaliah down so that he died along with the Jews and the Chaldeans who were with him at Mizpah. 
          26      Then all the people, both small and great, and the captains of the forces arose and went to Egypt; for they were afraid of the Chaldeans. 
          27      Now it came about in the thirty-seventh year of the exile of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, that Evil-merodach king of Babylon, in the year that he became king, released Jehoiachin king of Judah from prison; 
          28      and he spoke kindly to him and set his throne above the throne of the kings who were with him in Babylon. 
          29      Jehoiachin changed his prison clothes and had his meals in the king’s presence regularly all the days of his life; 
          30      and for his allowance, a regular allowance was given him by the king, a portion (davar) for each day, all the days of his life. 


New American Standard Bible: 1995 update (1995). La Habra, CA: The Lockman Foundation.


Exported from Logos Bible Study, 19:13 10 September 2026.



