# NIV84 1 Chronicles — converted from PDF (AGES Digital Library transcription of the New International Version, 1984 edition); source PDF pages 926-1002
1:1	Adam, Seth, Enosh,
1:2	Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared,
1:3	Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech, Noah.
1:4	The sons of Noah: [Septuagint; Hebrew does not have The sons of Noah:] Shem, Ham and Japheth.
1:5	The sons [Sons may mean descendants or successors or nations; also in verses 6-10, 17 and 20.] of Japheth: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech and Tiras.
1:6	The sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, Riphath [Many Hebrew manuscripts and Vulgate (see also Septuagint and Gen. 10:3); most Hebrew manuscripts Diphath] and Togarmah.
1:7	The sons of Javan: Elishah, Tarshish, the Kittim and the Rodanim.
1:8	The sons of Ham: Cush, Mizraim, [That is, Egypt; also in verse 11] Put and Canaan.
1:9	The sons of Cush: Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raamah and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan.
1:10	Cush was the father [Father may mean ancestor or predecessor or founder; also in verses 11, 13, 18 and 20.] of Nimrod, who grew to be a mighty warrior on earth.
1:11	Mizraim was the father of the Ludites, Anamites, Lehabites, Naphtuhites,
1:12	Pathrusites, Casluhites (from whom the Philistines came) and Caphtorites.
1:13	Canaan was the father of Sidon his firstborn, [Or of the Sidonians, the foremost] and of the Hittites,
1:14	Jebusites, Amorites, Girgashites,
1:15	Hivites, Arkites, Sinites,
1:16	Arvadites, Zemarites and Hamathites.
1:17	The sons of Shem: Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud and Aram. The sons of Aram: [One Hebrew manuscript and some Septuagint manuscripts (see also Gen. 10:23); most Hebrew manuscripts do not have this line.] Uz, Hul, Gether and Meshech.
1:18	Arphaxad was the father of Shelah, and Shelah the father of Eber.
1:19	Two sons were born to Eber: One was named Peleg, [Peleg means division.] because in his time the earth was divided; his brother was named Joktan.
1:20	Joktan was the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah,
1:21	Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah,
1:22	Obal, [Some Hebrew manuscripts and Syriac (see also Gen. 10:28); most Hebrew manuscripts Ebal] Abimael, Sheba,
1:23	Ophir, Havilah and Jobab. All these were sons of Joktan.
1:24	Shem, Arphaxad, [Hebrew; some Septuagint manuscripts Arphaxad, Cainan (see also note at Gen. 11:10)] Shelah,
1:25	Eber, Peleg, Reu,
1:26	Serug, Nahor, Terah
1:27	and Abram (that is, Abraham).
1:28	The sons of Abraham: Isaac and Ishmael.
1:29	These were their descendants: Nebaioth the firstborn of Ishmael, Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam,
1:30	Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema,
1:31	Jetur, Naphish and Kedemah. These were the sons of Ishmael.
1:32	The sons born to Keturah, Abraham’s concubine: Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak and Shuah. The sons of Jokshan: Sheba and Dedan.
1:33	The sons of Midian: Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida and Eldaah. All these were descendants of Keturah.
1:34	Abraham was the father of Isaac. The sons of Isaac: Esau and Israel.
1:35	The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam and Korah.
1:36	The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, Omar, Zepho, [Many Hebrew manuscripts, some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac (see also Gen. 36:11); most Hebrew manuscripts Zephi] Gatam and Kenaz; by Timna: Amalek. [Some Septuagint manuscripts (see also Gen. 36:12); Hebrew Gatam, Kenaz, Timna and Amalek]
1:37	The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah.
1:38	The sons of Seir: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer and Dishan.
1:39	The sons of Lotan: Hori and Homam. Timna was Lotan’s sister.
1:40	The sons of Shobal: Alvan, [Many Hebrew manuscripts and some Septuagint manuscripts (see also Gen. 36:23); most Hebrew manuscripts Alian] Manahath, Ebal, Shepho and Onam. The sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah.
1:41	The son of Anah: Dishon. The sons of Dishon: Hemdan, [Many Hebrew manuscripts and some Septuagint manuscripts (see also Gen. 36:26); most Hebrew manuscripts Hamran] Eshban, Ithran and Keran.
1:42	The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, Zaavan and Akan. [Many Hebrew and Septuagint manuscripts (see also Gen. 36:27); most Hebrew manuscripts Zaavan, Jaakan] The sons of Dishan: [Hebrew Dishon, a variant of Dishan] Uz and Aran.
1:43	These were the kings who reigned in Edom before any Israelite king reigned: [Or before an Israelite king reigned over them] Bela son of Beor, whose city was named Dinhabah.
1:44	When Bela died, Jobab son of Zerah from Bozrah succeeded him as king.
1:45	When Jobab died, Husham from the land of the Temanites succeeded him as king.
1:46	When Husham died, Hadad son of Bedad, who defeated Midian in the country of Moab, succeeded him as king. His city was named Avith.
1:47	When Hadad died, Samlah from Masrekah succeeded him as king.
1:48	When Samlah died, Shaul from Rehoboth on the river [Possibly the Euphrates] succeeded him as king.
1:49	When Shaul died, Baal-Hanan son of Acbor succeeded him as king.
1:50	When Baal-Hanan died, Hadad succeeded him as king. His city was named Pau, [Many Hebrew manuscripts, some Septuagint manuscripts, Vulgate and Syriac (see also Gen. 36:39); most Hebrew manuscripts Pai] and his wife’s name was Mehetabel daughter of Matred, the daughter of Me-Zahab.
1:51	Hadad also died. The chiefs of Edom were: Timna, Alvah, Jetheth,
1:52	Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon,
1:53	Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar,
1:54	Magdiel and Iram. These were the chiefs of Edom.
2:1	These were the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun,
2:2	Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad and Asher.
2:3	The sons of Judah: Er, Onan and Shelah. These three were born to him by a Canaanite woman, the daughter of Shua. Er, Judah’s firstborn, was wicked in the LORD’s sight; so the LORD put him to death.
2:4	Tamar, Judah’s daughter-in-law, bore him Perez and Zerah. Judah had five sons in all.
2:5	The sons of Perez: Hezron and Hamul.
2:6	The sons of Zerah: Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol and Darda — [Many Hebrew manuscripts, some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac (see also 1 Kings 4:31); most Hebrew manuscripts Dara] five in all.
2:7	The son of Carmi: Achar, [Achar means trouble; Achar is called Achan in Joshua.] who brought trouble on Israel by violating the ban on taking devoted things. [The Hebrew term refers to the irrevocable giving over of things or persons to the LORD, often by totally destroying them.]
2:8	The son of Ethan: Azariah.
2:9	The sons born to Hezron were: Jerahmeel, Ram and Caleb. [Hebrew Kelubai, a variant of Caleb]
2:10	Ram was the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab the father of Nahshon, the leader of the people of Judah.
2:11	Nahshon was the father of Salmon, [Septuagint (see also Ruth 4:21); Hebrew Salma] Salmon the father of Boaz,
2:12	Boaz the father of Obed and Obed the father of Jesse.
2:13	Jesse was the father of Eliab his firstborn; the second son was Abinadab, the third Shimea,
2:14	the fourth Nethanel, the fifth Raddai,
2:15	the sixth Ozem and the seventh David.
2:16	Their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. Zeruiah’s three sons were Abishai, Joab and Asahel.
2:17	Abigail was the mother of Amasa, whose father was Jether the Ishmaelite.
2:18	Caleb son of Hezron had children by his wife Azubah (and by Jerioth). These were her sons: Jesher, Shobab and Ardon.
2:19	When Azubah died, Caleb married Ephrath, who bore him Hur.
2:20	Hur was the father of Uri, and Uri the father of Bezalel.
2:21	Later, Hezron lay with the daughter of Makir the father of Gilead (he had married her when he was sixty years old), and she bore him Segub.
2:22	Segub was the father of Jair, who controlled twenty-three towns in Gilead.
2:23	(But Geshur and Aram captured Havvoth Jair, [Or captured the settlements of Jair] as well as Kenath with its surrounding settlements — sixty towns.) All these were descendants of Makir the father of Gilead.
2:24	After Hezron died in Caleb Ephrathah, Abijah the wife of Hezron bore him Ashhur the father [Father may mean civic leader or military leader; also in verses 42, 45, 49-52 and possibly elsewhere.] of Tekoa.
2:25	The sons of Jerahmeel the firstborn of Hezron: Ram his firstborn, Bunah, Oren, Ozem and [Or Oren and Ozem, by] Ahijah.
2:26	Jerahmeel had another wife, whose name was Atarah; she was the mother of Onam.
2:27	The sons of Ram the firstborn of Jerahmeel: Maaz, Jamin and Eker.
2:28	The sons of Onam: Shammai and Jada. The sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur.
2:29	Abishur’s wife was named Abihail, who bore him Ahban and Molid.
2:30	The sons of Nadab: Seled and Appaim. Seled died without children.
2:31	The son of Appaim: Ishi, who was the father of Sheshan. Sheshan was the father of Ahlai.
2:32	The sons of Jada, Shammai’s brother: Jether and Jonathan. Jether died without children.
2:33	The sons of Jonathan: Peleth and Zaza. These were the descendants of Jerahmeel.
2:34	Sheshan had no sons — only daughters. He had an Egyptian servant named Jarha.
2:35	Sheshan gave his daughter in marriage to his servant Jarha, and she bore him Attai.
2:36	Attai was the father of Nathan, Nathan the father of Zabad,
2:37	Zabad the father of Ephlal, Ephlal the father of Obed,
2:38	Obed the father of Jehu, Jehu the father of Azariah,
2:39	Azariah the father of Helez, Helez the father of Eleasah,
2:40	Eleasah the father of Sismai, Sismai the father of Shallum,
2:41	Shallum the father of Jekamiah, and Jekamiah the father of Elishama.
2:42	The sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel: Mesha his firstborn, who was the father of Ziph, and his son Mareshah, [The meaning of the Hebrew for this phrase is uncertain.] who was the father of Hebron.
2:43	The sons of Hebron: Korah, Tappuah, Rekem and Shema.
2:44	Shema was the father of Raham, and Raham the father of Jorkeam. Rekem was the father of Shammai.
2:45	The son of Shammai was Maon, and Maon was the father of Beth Zur.
2:46	Caleb’s concubine Ephah was the mother of Haran, Moza and Gazez. Haran was the father of Gazez.
2:47	The sons of Jahdai: Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah and Shaaph.
2:48	Caleb’s concubine Maacah was the mother of Sheber and Tirhanah.
2:49	She also gave birth to Shaaph the father of Madmannah and to Sheva the father of Macbenah and Gibea. Caleb’s daughter was Acsah.
2:50	These were the descendants of Caleb. The sons of Hur the firstborn of Ephrathah: Shobal the father of Kiriath Jearim,
2:51	Salma the father of Bethlehem, and Hareph the father of Beth Gader.
2:52	The descendants of Shobal the father of Kiriath Jearim were: Haroeh, half the Manahathites,
2:53	and the clans of Kiriath Jearim: the Ithrites, Puthites, Shumathites and Mishraites. From these descended the Zorathites and Eshtaolites.
2:54	The descendants of Salma: Bethlehem, the Netophathites, Atroth Beth Joab, half the Manahathites, the Zorites,
2:55	and the clans of scribes [Or of the Sopherites] who lived at Jabez: the Tirathites, Shimeathites and Sucathites. These are the Kenites who came from Hammath, the father of the house of Recab. [Or father of Beth Recab]
3:1	These were the sons of David born to him in Hebron: The firstborn was Amnon the son of Ahinoam of Jezreel; the second, Daniel the son of Abigail of Carmel;
3:2	the third, Absalom the son of Maacah daughter of Talmai king of Geshur; the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith;
3:3	the fifth, Shephatiah the son of Abital; and the sixth, Ithream, by his wife Eglah.
3:4	These six were born to David in Hebron, where he reigned for seven years and six months. David reigned in Jerusalem for thirty-three years,
3:5	and these were the children born to him there: Shammua, [Hebrew Shimea, a variant of Shammua] Shobab, Nathan and Solomon. These four were by Bathsheba [One Hebrew manuscript and Vulgate (see also Septuagint and 2 Sam. 11:3); most Hebrew manuscripts Bathshua] daughter of Ammiel.
3:6	There were also Ibhar, Elishua, [Two Hebrew manuscripts (see also 2 Sam. 5:15 and 1 Chron. 14:5); most Hebrew manuscripts Elishama] Eliphelet,
3:7	Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia,
3:8	Elishama, Eliada and Eliphelet — nine in all.
3:9	All these were the sons of David, besides his sons by his concubines. And Tamar was their sister.
3:10	Solomon’s son was Rehoboam, Abijah his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son,
3:11	Jehoram [Hebrew Joram, a variant of Jehoram] his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son,
3:12	Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son,
3:13	Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son,
3:14	Amon his son, Josiah his son.
3:15	The sons of Josiah: Johanan the firstborn, Jehoiakim the second son, Zedekiah the third, Shallum the fourth.
3:16	The successors of Jehoiakim: Jehoiachin [Hebrew Jeconiah, a variant of Jehoiachin; also in verse 17] his son, and Zedekiah.
3:17	The descendants of Jehoiachin the captive: Shealtiel his son,
3:18	Malkiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama and Nedabiah.
3:19	The sons of Pedaiah: Zerubbabel and Shimei. The sons of Zerubbabel: Meshullam and Hananiah. Shelomith was their sister.
3:20	There were also five others: Hashubah, Ohel, Berekiah, Hasadiah and Jushab-Hesed.
3:21	The descendants of Hananiah: Pelatiah and Jeshaiah, and the sons of Rephaiah, of Arnan, of Obadiah and of Shecaniah.
3:22	The descendants of Shecaniah: Shemaiah and his sons: Hattush, Igal, Bariah, Neariah and Shaphat — six in all.
3:23	The sons of Neariah: Elioenai, Hizkiah and Azrikam — three in all.
3:24	The sons of Elioenai: Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah and Anani — seven in all.
4:1	The descendants of Judah: Perez, Hezron, Carmi, Hur and Shobal.
4:2	Reaiah son of Shobal was the father of Jahath, and Jahath the father of Ahumai and Lahad. These were the clans of the Zorathites.
4:3	These were the sons [Some Septuagint manuscripts (see also Vulgate); Hebrew father] of Etam: Jezreel, Ishma and Idbash. Their sister was named Hazzelelponi.
4:4	Penuel was the father of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah. These were the descendants of Hur, the firstborn of Ephrathah and father [Father may mean civic leader or military leader; also in verses 12, 14, 17, 18 and possibly elsewhere.] of Bethlehem.
4:5	Ashhur the father of Tekoa had two wives, Helah and Naarah.
4:6	Naarah bore him Ahuzzam, Hepher, Temeni and Haahashtari. These were the descendants of Naarah.
4:7	The sons of Helah: Zereth, Zohar, Ethnan,
4:8	and Koz, who was the father of Anub and Hazzobebah and of the clans of Aharhel son of Harum.
4:9	Jabez was more honourable than his brothers. His mother had named him Jabez, [Jabez sounds like the Hebrew for pain.] saying, “I gave birth to him in pain.”
4:10	Jabez cried out to the God of Israel, “Oh, that you would bless me and enlarge my territory! Let your hand be with me, and keep me from harm so that I will be free from pain.” And God granted his request.
4:11	Kelub, Shuhah’s brother, was the father of Mehir, who was the father of Eshton.
4:12	Eshton was the father of Beth Rapha, Paseah and Tehinnah the father of Ir Nahash. [Or of the city of Nahash] These were the men of Recah.
4:13	The sons of Kenaz: Othniel and Seraiah. The sons of Othniel: Hathath and Meonothai. [Some Septuagint manuscripts and Vulgate; Hebrew does not have and Meonothai.]
4:14	Meonothai was the father of Ophrah. Seraiah was the father of Joab, the father of Ge Harashim. [Ge Harashim means valley of craftsmen.] It was called this because its people were craftsmen.
4:15	The sons of Caleb son of Jephunneh: Iru, Elah and Naam. The son of Elah: Kenaz.
4:16	The sons of Jehallelel: Ziph, Ziphah, Tiria and Asarel.
4:17	The sons of Ezrah: Jether, Mered, Epher and Jalon. One of Mered’s wives gave birth to Miriam, Shammai and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa.
4:18	(His Judean wife gave birth to Jered the father of Gedor, Heber the father of Soco, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah.) These were the children of Pharaoh’s daughter Bithiah, whom Mered had married.
4:19	The sons of Hodiah’s wife, the sister of Naham: the father of Keilah the Garmite, and Eshtemoa the Maacathite.
4:20	The sons of Shimon: Amnon, Rinnah, Ben-Hanan and Tilon. The descendants of Ishi: Zoheth and Ben-Zoheth.
4:21	The sons of Shelah son of Judah: Er the father of Lecah, Laadah the father of Mareshah and the clans of the linen workers at Beth Ashbea,
4:22	Jokim, the men of Cozeba, and Joash and Saraph, who ruled in Moab and Jashubi Lehem. (These records are from ancient times.)
4:23	They were the potters who lived at Netaim and Gederah; they stayed there and worked for the king.
4:24	The descendants of Simeon: Nemuel, Jamin, Jarib, Zerah and Shaul;
4:25	Shallum was Shaul’s son, Mibsam his son and Mishma his son.
4:26	The descendants of Mishma: Hammuel his son, Zaccur his son and Shimei his son.
4:27	Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters, but his brothers did not have many children; so their entire clan did not become as numerous as the people of Judah.
4:28	They lived in Beersheba, Moladah, Hazar Shual,
4:29	Bilhah, Ezem, Tolad,
4:30	Bethuel, Hormah, Ziklag,
4:31	Beth Marcaboth, Hazar Susim, Beth Biri and Shaaraim. These were their towns until the reign of David.
4:32	Their surrounding villages were Etam, Ain, Rimmon, Token and Ashan — five towns —
4:33	and all the villages around these towns as far as Baalath. [Some Septuagint manuscripts (see also Joshua 19:8); Hebrew Baal] These were their settlements. And they kept a genealogical record.
4:34	Meshobab, Jamlech, Joshah son of Amaziah,
4:35	Joel, Jehu son of Joshibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel,
4:36	also Elioenai, Jaakobah, Jeshohaiah, Asaiah, Adiel, Jesimiel, Benaiah,
4:37	and Ziza son of Shiphi, the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of Shemaiah.
4:38	The men listed above by name were leaders of their clans. Their families increased greatly,
4:39	and they went to the outskirts of Gedor to the east of the valley in search of pasture for their flocks.
4:40	They found rich, good pasture, and the land was spacious, peaceful and quiet. Some Hamites had lived there formerly.
4:41	The men whose names were listed came in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah. They attacked the Hamites in their dwellings and also the Meunites who were there and completely destroyed [The Hebrew term refers to the irrevocable giving over of things or persons to the LORD, often by totally destroying them.] them, as is evident to this day. Then they settled in their place, because there was pasture for their flocks.
4:42	And five hundred of these Simeonites, led by Pelatiah, Neariah, Rephaiah and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi, invaded the hill country of Seir.
4:43	They killed the remaining Amalekites who had escaped, and they have lived there to this day.
5:1	The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel (he was the firstborn, but when he defiled his father’s marriage bed, his rights as firstborn were given to the sons of Joseph son of Israel; so he could not be listed in the genealogical record in accordance with his birthright,
5:2	and though Judah was the strongest of his brothers and a ruler came from him, the rights of the firstborn belonged to Joseph) —
5:3	the sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron and Carmi.
5:4	The descendants of Joel: Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son,
5:5	Micah his son, Reaiah his son, Baal his son,
5:6	and Beerah his son, whom Tiglath-Pileser [Hebrew Tilgath-Pilneser, a variant of Tiglath-Pileser; also in verse 26] king of Assyria took into exile. Beerah was a leader of the Reubenites.
5:7	Their relatives by clans, listed according to their genealogical records: Jeiel the chief, Zechariah,
5:8	and Bela son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel. They settled in the area from Aroer to Nebo and Baal Meon.
5:9	To the east they occupied the land up to the edge of the desert that extends to the Euphrates River, because their livestock had increased in Gilead.
5:10	During Saul’s reign they waged war against the Hagrites, who were defeated at their hands; they occupied the dwellings of the Hagrites throughout the entire region east of Gilead.
5:11	The Gadites lived next to them in Bashan, as far as Salecah:
5:12	Joel was the chief, Shapham the second, then Janai and Shaphat, in Bashan.
5:13	Their relatives, by families, were: Michael, Meshullam, Sheba, Jorai, Jacan, Zia and Eber — seven in all.
5:14	These were the sons of Abihail son of Huri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, the son of Jeshishai, the son of Jahdo, the son of Buz.
5:15	Ahi son of Abdiel, the son of Guni, was head of their family.
5:16	The Gadites lived in Gilead, in Bashan and its outlying villages, and on all the pasture-lands of Sharon as far as they extended.
5:17	All these were entered in the genealogical records during the reigns of Jotham king of Judah and Jeroboam king of Israel.
5:18	The Reubenites, the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh had 44,760 men ready for military service — able-bodied men who could handle shield and sword, who could use a bow, and who were trained for battle.
5:19	They waged war against the Hagrites, Jetur, Naphish and Nodab.
5:20	They were helped in fighting them, and God handed the Hagrites and all their allies over to them, because they cried out to him during the battle. He answered their prayers, because they trusted in him.
5:21	They seized the livestock of the Hagrites — fifty thousand camels, two hundred and fifty thousand sheep and two thousand donkeys. They also took one hundred thousand people captive,
5:22	and many others fell slain, because the battle was God’s. And they occupied the land until the exile.
5:23	The people of the half-tribe of Manasseh were numerous; they settled in the land from Bashan to Baal Hermon, that is, to Senir (Mount Hermon).
5:24	These were the heads of their families: Epher, Ishi, Eliel, Azriel, Jeremiah, Hodaviah and Jahdiel. They were brave warriors, famous men, and heads of their families.
5:25	But they were unfaithful to the God of their fathers and prostituted themselves to the gods of the peoples of the land, whom God had destroyed before them.
5:26	So the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul king of Assyria (that is, Tiglath-Pileser king of Assyria), who took the Reubenites, the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh into exile. He took them to Halah, Habor, Hara and the river of Gozan, where they are to this day.
6:1	The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath and Merari.
6:2	The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel.
6:3	The children of Amram: Aaron, Moses and Miriam. The sons of Aaron: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
6:4	Eleazar was the father of Phinehas, Phinehas the father of Abishua,
6:5	Abishua the father of Bukki, Bukki the father of Uzzi,
6:6	Uzzi the father of Zerahiah, Zerahiah the father of Meraioth,
6:7	Meraioth the father of Amariah, Amariah the father of Ahitub,
6:8	Ahitub the father of Zadok, Zadok the father of Ahimaaz,
6:9	Ahimaaz the father of Azariah, Azariah the father of Johanan,
6:10	Johanan the father of Azariah (it was he who served as priest in the temple Solomon built in Jerusalem),
6:11	Azariah the father of Amariah, Amariah the father of Ahitub,
6:12	Ahitub the father of Zadok, Zadok the father of Shallum,
6:13	Shallum the father of Hilkiah, Hilkiah the father of Azariah,
6:14	Azariah the father of Seraiah, and Seraiah the father of Jehozadak.
6:15	Jehozadak was deported when the LORD sent Judah and Jerusalem into exile by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar.
6:16	The sons of Levi: Gershon, [Hebrew Gershom, a variant of Gershon; also in verses 17, 20, 43, 62 and 71] Kohath and Merari.
6:17	These are the names of the sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei.
6:18	The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel.
6:19	The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the clans of the Levites listed according to their fathers:
6:20	Of Gershon: Libni his son, Jehath his son, Zimmah his son,
6:21	Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son and Jeatherai his son.
6:22	The descendants of Kohath: Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son,
6:23	Elkanah his son, Ebiasaph his son, Assir his son,
6:24	Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son and Shaul his son.
6:25	The descendants of Elkanah: Amasai, Ahimoth,
6:26	Elkanah his son, [Some Hebrew manuscripts, Septuagint and Syriac; most Hebrew manuscripts Ahimoth 26 and Elkanah. The sons of Elkanah:] Zophai his son, Nahath his son,
6:27	Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son and Samuel his son. [Some Septuagint manuscripts (see also 1 Sam. 1:19, 20 and 1 Chron. 6:33, 34); Hebrew does not have and Samuel his son.]
6:28	The sons of Samuel: Joel [Some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac (see also 1 Sam. 8:2 and 1 Chron. 6:33); Hebrew does not have Joel.] the firstborn and Abijah the second son.
6:29	The descendants of Merari: Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzzah his son,
6:30	Shimea his son, Haggiah his son and Asaiah his son.
6:31	These are the men David put in charge of the music in the house of the LORD after the ark came to rest there.
6:32	They ministered with music before the tabernacle, the Tent of Meeting, until Solomon built the temple of the LORD in Jerusalem. They performed their duties according to the regulations laid down for them.
6:33	Here are the men who served, together with their sons: From the Kohathites: Heman, the musician, the son of Joel, the son of Samuel,
6:34	the son of Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Eliel, the son of Toah,
6:35	the son of Zuph, the son of Elkanah, the son of Mahath, the son of Amasai,
6:36	the son of Elkanah, the son of Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah,
6:37	the son of Tahath, the son of Assir, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah,
6:38	the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son of Israel;
6:39	and Heman’s associate Asaph, who served at his right hand: Asaph son of Berekiah, the son of Shimea,
6:40	the son of Michael, the son of Baaseiah, [Most Hebrew manuscripts; some Hebrew manuscripts, one Septuagint manuscript and Syriac Maaseiah] the son of Malkijah,
6:41	the son of Ethni, the son of Zerah, the son of Adaiah,
6:42	the son of Ethan, the son of Zimmah, the son of Shimei,
6:43	the son of Jahath, the son of Gershon, the son of Levi;
6:44	and from their associates, the Merarites, at his left hand: Ethan son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch,
6:45	the son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah,
6:46	the son of Amzi, the son of Bani, the son of Shemer,
6:47	the son of Mahli, the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi.
6:48	Their fellow Levites were assigned to all the other duties of the tabernacle, the house of God.
6:49	But Aaron and his descendants were the ones who presented offerings on the altar of burnt offering and on the altar of incense in connection with all that was done in the Most Holy Place, making atonement for Israel, in accordance with all that Moses the servant of God had commanded.
6:50	These were the descendants of Aaron: Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son,
6:51	Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son,
6:52	Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son,
6:53	Zadok his son and Ahimaaz his son.
6:54	These were the locations of their settlements allotted as their territory (they were assigned to the descendants of Aaron who were from the Kohathite clan, because the first lot was for them):
6:55	They were given Hebron in Judah with its surrounding pasture-lands.
6:56	But the fields and villages around the city were given to Caleb son of Jephunneh.
6:57	So the descendants of Aaron were given Hebron (a city of refuge), and Libnah, [See Joshua 21:13; Hebrew given the cities of refuge: Hebron, Libnah.] Jattir, Eshtemoa,
6:58	Hilen, Debir,
6:59	Ashan, Juttah [Syriac (see also Septuagint and Joshua 21:16); Hebrew does not have Juttah.] and Beth Shemesh, together with their pasture-lands.
6:60	And from the tribe of Benjamin they were given Gibeon, [See Joshua 21:17; Hebrew does not have Gibeon.] Geba, Alemeth and Anathoth, together with their pasture-lands. These towns, which were distributed among the Kohathite clans, were thirteen in all.
6:61	The rest of Kohath’s descendants were allotted ten towns from the clans of half the tribe of Manasseh.
6:62	The descendants of Gershon, clan by clan, were allotted thirteen towns from the tribes of Issachar, Asher and Naphtali, and from the part of the tribe of Manasseh that is in Bashan.
6:63	The descendants of Merari, clan by clan, were allotted twelve towns from the tribes of Reuben, Gad and Zebulun.
6:64	So the Israelites gave the Levites these towns and their pasture-lands.
6:65	From the tribes of Judah, Simeon and Benjamin they allotted the previously named towns.
6:66	Some of the Kohathite clans were given as their territory towns from the tribe of Ephraim.
6:67	In the hill country of Ephraim they were given Shechem (a city of refuge), and Gezer, [See Joshua 21:21; Hebrew given the cities of refuge: Shechem, Gezer.]
6:68	Jokmeam, Beth Horon,
6:69	Aijalon and Gath Rimmon, together with their pasture-lands.
6:70	And from half the tribe of Manasseh the Israelites gave Aner and Bileam, together with their pasture-lands, to the rest of the Kohathite clans.
6:71	The Gershonites received the following: From the clan of the half-tribe of Manasseh they received Golan in Bashan and also Ashtaroth, together with their pasture-lands;
6:72	from the tribe of Issachar they received Kedesh, Daberath,
6:73	Ramoth and Anem, together with their pasture-lands;
6:74	from the tribe of Asher they received Mashal, Abdon,
6:75	Hukok and Rehob, together with their pasture-lands;
6:76	and from the tribe of Naphtali they received Kedesh in Galilee, Hammon and Kiriathaim, together with their pasture-lands.
6:77	The Merarites (the rest of the Levites) received the following: From the tribe of Zebulun they received Jokneam, Kartah, [See Septuagint and Joshua 21:34; Hebrew does not have Jokneam, Kartah.] Rimmono and Tabor, together with their pasture-lands;
6:78	from the tribe of Reuben across the Jordan east of Jericho they received Bezer in the desert, Jahzah,
6:79	Kedemoth and Mephaath, together with their pasture-lands;
6:80	and from the tribe of Gad they received Ramoth in Gilead, Mahanaim,
6:81	Heshbon and Jazer, together with their pasture-lands.
7:1	The sons of Issachar: Tola, Puah, Jashub and Shimron — four in all.
7:2	The sons of Tola: Uzzi, Rephaiah, Jeriel, Jahmai, Ibsam and Samuel — heads of their families. During the reign of David, the descendants of Tola listed as fighting men in their genealogy numbered 22,600.
7:3	The son of Uzzi: Izrahiah. The sons of Izrahiah: Michael, Obadiah, Joel and Isshiah. All five of them were chiefs.
7:4	According to their family genealogy, they had 36,000 men ready for battle, for they had many wives and children.
7:5	The relatives who were fighting men belonging to all the clans of Issachar, as listed in their genealogy, were 87,000 in all.
7:6	Three sons of Benjamin: Bela, Beker and Jediael.
7:7	The sons of Bela: Ezbon, Uzzi, Uzziel, Jerimoth and Iri, heads of families — five in all. Their genealogical record listed 22,034 fighting men.
7:8	The sons of Beker: Zemirah, Joash, Eliezer, Elioenai, Omri, Jeremoth, Abijah, Anathoth and Alemeth. All these were the sons of Beker.
7:9	Their genealogical record listed the heads of families and 20,200 fighting men.
7:10	The son of Jediael: Bilhan. The sons of Bilhan: Jeush, Benjamin, Ehud, Kenaanah, Zethan, Tarshish and Ahishahar.
7:11	All these sons of Jediael were heads of families. There were 17,200 fighting men ready to go out to war.
7:12	The Shuppites and Huppites were the descendants of Ir, and the Hushites the descendants of Aher.
7:13	The sons of Naphtali: Jahziel, Guni, Jezer and Shillem — [Some Hebrew and Septuagint manuscripts (see also Gen. 46:24 and Num. 26:49); most Hebrew manuscripts Shallum] the descendants of Bilhah.
7:14	The descendants of Manasseh: Asriel was his descendant through his Aramean concubine. She gave birth to Makir the father of Gilead.
7:15	Makir took a wife from among the Huppites and Shuppites. His sister’s name was Maacah. Another descendant was named Zelophehad, who had only daughters.
7:16	Makir’s wife Maacah gave birth to a son and named him Peresh. His brother was named Sheresh, and his sons were Ulam and Rakem.
7:17	The son of Ulam: Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead son of Makir, the son of Manasseh.
7:18	His sister Hammoleketh gave birth to Ishhod, Abiezer and Mahlah.
7:19	The sons of Shemida were: Ahian, Shechem, Likhi and Aniam.
7:20	The descendants of Ephraim: Shuthelah, Bered his son, Tahath his son, Eleadah his son, Tahath his son,
7:21	Zabad his son and Shuthelah his son. Ezer and Elead were killed by the native-born men of Gath, when they went down to seize their livestock.
7:22	Their father Ephraim mourned for them many days, and his relatives came to comfort him.
7:23	Then he lay with his wife again, and she became pregnant and gave birth to a son. He named him Beriah, [Beriah sounds like the Hebrew for misfortune.] because there had been misfortune in his family.
7:24	His daughter was Sheerah, who built Lower and Upper Beth Horon as well as Uzzen Sheerah.
7:25	Rephah was his son, Resheph his son, [Some Septuagint manuscripts; Hebrew does not have his son.] Telah his son, Tahan his son,
7:26	Ladan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son,
7:27	Nun his son and Joshua his son.
7:28	Their lands and settlements included Bethel and its surrounding villages, Naaran to the east, Gezer and its villages to the west, and Shechem and its villages all the way to Ayyah and its villages.
7:29	Along the borders of Manasseh were Beth Shan, Taanach, Megiddo and Dor, together with their villages. The descendants of Joseph son of Israel lived in these towns.
7:30	The sons of Asher: Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi and Beriah. Their sister was Serah.
7:31	The sons of Beriah: Heber and Malkiel, who was the father of Birzaith.
7:32	Heber was the father of Japhlet, Shomer and Hotham and of their sister Shua.
7:33	The sons of Japhlet: Pasach, Bimhal and Ashvath. These were Japhlet’s sons.
7:34	The sons of Shomer: Ahi, Rohgah, [Or of his brother Shomer: Rohgah] Hubbah and Aram.
7:35	The sons of his brother Helem: Zophah, Imna, Shelesh and Amal.
7:36	The sons of Zophah: Suah, Harnepher, Shual, Beri, Imrah,
7:37	Bezer, Hod, Shamma, Shilshah, Ithran [Possibly a variant of Jether] and Beera.
7:38	The sons of Jether: Jephunneh, Pispah and Ara.
7:39	The sons of Ulla: Arah, Hanniel and Rizia.
7:40	All these were descendants of Asher — heads of families, choice men, brave warriors and outstanding leaders. The number of men ready for battle, as listed in their genealogy, was 26,000.
8:1	Benjamin was the father of Bela his firstborn, Ashbel the second son, Aharah the third,
8:2	Nohah the fourth and Rapha the fifth.
8:3	The sons of Bela were: Addar, Gera, Abihud, [Or Gera the father of Ehud]
8:4	Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah,
8:5	Gera, Shephuphan and Huram.
8:6	These were the descendants of Ehud, who were heads of families of those living in Geba and were deported to Manahath:
8:7	Naaman, Ahijah and Gera, who deported them and who was the father of Uzza and Ahihud.
8:8	Sons were born to Shaharaim in Moab after he had divorced his wives Hushim and Baara.
8:9	By his wife Hodesh he had Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam,
8:10	Jeuz, Sakia and Mirmah. These were his sons, heads of families.
8:11	By Hushim he had Abitub and Elpaal.
8:12	The sons of Elpaal: Eber, Misham, Shemed (who built Ono and Lod with its surrounding villages),
8:13	and Beriah and Shema, who were heads of families of those living in Aijalon and who drove out the inhabitants of Gath.
8:14	Ahio, Shashak, Jeremoth,
8:15	Zebadiah, Arad, Eder,
8:16	Michael, Ishpah and Joha were the sons of Beriah.
8:17	Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Heber,
8:18	Ishmerai, Izliah and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal.
8:19	Jakim, Zicri, Zabdi,
8:20	Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel,
8:21	Adaiah, Beraiah and Shimrath were the sons of Shimei.
8:22	Ishpan, Eber, Eliel,
8:23	Abdon, Zicri, Hanan,
8:24	Hananiah, Elam, Anthothijah,
8:25	Iphdeiah and Penuel were the sons of Shashak.
8:26	Shamsherai, Shehariah, Athaliah,
8:27	Jaareshiah, Elijah and Zicri were the sons of Jeroham.
8:28	All these were heads of families, chiefs as listed in their genealogy, and they lived in Jerusalem.
8:29	Jeiel [Some Septuagint manuscripts (see also 1 Chron. 9:35); Hebrew does not have Jeiel.] the father [Father may mean civic leader or military leader.] of Gibeon lived in Gibeon. His wife’s name was Maacah,
8:30	and his firstborn son was Abdon, followed by Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, [Some Septuagint manuscripts (see also 1 Chron. 9:36); Hebrew does not have Ner.] Nadab,
8:31	Gedor, Ahio, Zeker
8:32	and Mikloth, who was the father of Shimeah. They too lived near their relatives in Jerusalem.
8:33	Ner was the father of Kish, Kish the father of Saul, and Saul the father of Jonathan, Malki-Shua, Abinadab and Esh-Baal. [Also known as Ish-Bosheth]
8:34	The son of Jonathan: Merib-Baal, [Also known as Mephibosheth] who was the father of Micah.
8:35	The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tarea and Ahaz.
8:36	Ahaz was the father of Jehoaddah, Jehoaddah was the father of Alemeth, Azmaveth and Zimri, and Zimri was the father of Moza.
8:37	Moza was the father of Binea; Raphah was his son, Eleasah his son and Azel his son.
8:38	Azel had six sons, and these were their names: Azrikam, Bokeru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.
8:39	The sons of his brother Eshek: Ulam his firstborn, Jeush the second son and Eliphelet the third.
8:40	The sons of Ulam were brave warriors who could handle the bow. They had many sons and grandsons — 150 in all. All these were the descendants of Benjamin.
9:1	All Israel was listed in the genealogies in the book of the kings of Israel. The people of Judah were taken captive to Babylon because of their unfaithfulness.
9:2	Now the first to resettle on their own property in their own towns were some Israelites, priests, Levites and temple servants.
9:3	Those from Judah, from Benjamin, and from Ephraim and Manasseh who lived in Jerusalem were:
9:4	Uthai son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, a descendant of Perez son of Judah.
9:5	Of the Shilonites: Asaiah the firstborn and his sons.
9:6	Of the Zerahites: Jeuel. The people from Judah numbered 690.
9:7	Of the Benjamites: Sallu son of Meshullam, the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hassenuah;
9:8	Ibneiah son of Jeroham; Elah son of Uzzi, the son of Micri; and Meshullam son of Shephatiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah.
9:9	The people from Benjamin, as listed in their genealogy, numbered 956. All these men were heads of their families.
9:10	Of the priests: Jedaiah; Jehoiarib; Jakin;
9:11	Azariah son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the official in charge of the house of God;
9:12	Adaiah son of Jeroham, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malkijah; and Maasai son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer.
9:13	The priests, who were heads of families, numbered 1,760. They were able men, responsible for ministering in the house of God.
9:14	Of the Levites: Shemaiah son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, a Merarite;
9:15	Bakbakkar, Heresh, Galal and Mattaniah son of Mica, the son of Zicri, the son of Asaph;
9:16	Obadiah son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun; and Berekiah son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, who lived in the villages of the Netophathites.
9:17	The gatekeepers: Shallum, Akkub, Talmon, Ahiman and their brothers, Shallum their chief
9:18	being stationed at the King’s Gate on the east, up to the present time. These were the gatekeepers belonging to the camp of the Levites.
9:19	Shallum son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, and his fellow gatekeepers from his family (the Korahites) were responsible for guarding the thresholds of the Tent [That is, the temple; also in verses 21 and 23] just as their fathers had been responsible for guarding the entrance to the dwelling of the LORD.
9:20	In earlier times Phinehas son of Eleazar was in charge of the gatekeepers, and the LORD was with him.
9:21	Zechariah son of Meshelemiah was the gatekeeper at the entrance to the Tent of Meeting.
9:22	Altogether, those chosen to be gatekeepers at the thresholds numbered 212. They were registered by genealogy in their villages. The gatekeepers had been assigned to their positions of trust by David and Samuel the seer.
9:23	They and their descendants were in charge of guarding the gates of the house of the LORD — the house called the Tent.
9:24	The gatekeepers were on the four sides: east, west, north and south.
9:25	Their brothers in their villages had to come from time to time and share their duties for seven-day periods.
9:26	But the four principal gatekeepers, who were Levites, were entrusted with the responsibility for the rooms and treasuries in the house of God.
9:27	They would spend the night stationed round the house of God, because they had to guard it; and they had charge of the key for opening it each morning.
9:28	Some of them were in charge of the articles used in the temple service; they counted them when they were brought in and when they were taken out.
9:29	Others were assigned to take care of the furnishings and all the other articles of the sanctuary, as well as the flour and wine, and the oil, incense and spices.
9:30	But some of the priests took care of mixing the spices.
9:31	A Levite named Mattithiah, the firstborn son of Shallum the Korahite, was entrusted with the responsibility for baking the offering bread.
9:32	Some of their Kohathite brothers were in charge of preparing for every Sabbath the bread set out on the table.
9:33	Those who were musicians, heads of Levite families, stayed in the rooms of the temple and were exempt from other duties because they were responsible for the work day and night.
9:34	All these were heads of Levite families, chiefs as listed in their genealogy, and they lived in Jerusalem.
9:35	Jeiel the father [Father may mean civic leader or military leader.] of Gibeon lived in Gibeon. His wife’s name was Maacah,
9:36	and his firstborn son was Abdon, followed by Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab,
9:37	Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah and Mikloth.
9:38	Mikloth was the father of Shimeam. They too lived near their relatives in Jerusalem.
9:39	Ner was the father of Kish, Kish the father of Saul, and Saul the father of Jonathan, Malki-Shua, Abinadab and Esh-Baal. [Also known as Ish-Bosheth]
9:40	The son of Jonathan: Merib-Baal, [Also known as Mephibosheth] who was the father of Micah.
9:41	The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tahrea and Ahaz. [Vulgate and Syriac (see also Septuagint and 1 Chron. 8:35); Hebrew does not have and Ahaz.]
9:42	Ahaz was the father of Jadah, Jadah [Some Hebrew manuscripts and Septuagint (see also 1 Chron. 8:36); most Hebrew manuscripts Jarah, Jarah] was the father of Alemeth, Azmaveth and Zimri, and Zimri was the father of Moza.
9:43	Moza was the father of Binea; Rephaiah was his son, Eleasah his son and Azel his son.
9:44	Azel had six sons, and these were their names: Azrikam, Bokeru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah and Hanan. These were the sons of Azel.
10:1	Now the Philistines fought against Israel; the Israelites fled before them, and many fell slain on Mount Gilboa.
10:2	The Philistines pressed hard after Saul and his sons, and they killed his sons Jonathan, Abinadab and Malki-Shua.
10:3	The fighting grew fierce around Saul, and when the archers overtook him, they wounded him.
10:4	Saul said to his armour-bearer, “Draw your sword and run me through, or these uncircumcised fellows will come and abuse me.” But his armour-bearer was terrified and would not do it; so Saul took his own sword and fell on it.
10:5	When the armour-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he too fell on his sword and died.
10:6	So Saul and his three sons died, and all his house died together.
10:7	When all the Israelites in the valley saw that the army had fled and that Saul and his sons had died, they abandoned their towns and fled. And the Philistines came and occupied them.
10:8	The next day, when the Philistines came to strip the dead, they found Saul and his sons fallen on Mount Gilboa.
10:9	They stripped him and took his head and his armour, and sent messengers throughout the land of the Philistines to proclaim the news among their idols and their people.
10:10	They put his armour in the temple of their gods and hung up his head in the temple of Dagon.
10:11	When all the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead heard of everything the Philistines had done to Saul,
10:12	all their valiant men went and took the bodies of Saul and his sons and brought them to Jabesh. Then they buried their bones under the great tree in Jabesh, and they fasted seven days.
10:13	Saul died because he was unfaithful to the LORD; he did not keep the word of the LORD, and even consulted a medium for guidance,
10:14	and did not enquire of the LORD. So the LORD put him to death and turned the kingdom over to David son of Jesse.
11:1	All Israel came together to David at Hebron and said, “We are your own flesh and blood.
11:2	In the past, even while Saul was king, you were the one who led Israel on their military campaigns. And the LORD your God said to you, `You will shepherd my people Israel, and you will become their ruler.’“
11:3	When all the elders of Israel had come to King David at Hebron, he made a compact with them at Hebron before the LORD, and they anointed David king over Israel, as the LORD had promised through Samuel.
11:4	David and all the Israelites marched to Jerusalem (that is, Jebus). The Jebusites who lived there
11:5	said to David, “You will not get in here.” Nevertheless, David captured the fortress of Zion, the City of David.
11:6	David had said, “Whoever leads the attack on the Jebusites will become commander-in-chief.” Joab son of Zeruiah went up first, and so he received the command.
11:7	David then took up residence in the fortress, and so it was called the City of David.
11:8	He built up the city around it, from the supporting terraces [Or the Millo] to the surrounding wall, while Joab restored the rest of the city.
11:9	And David became more and more powerful, because the LORD Almighty was with him.
11:10	These were the chiefs of David’s mighty men — they, together with all Israel, gave his kingship strong support to extend it over the whole land, as the LORD had promised —
11:11	this is the list of David’s mighty men: Jashobeam, [Possibly a variant of Jashob-Baal] a Hacmonite, was chief of the officers; [Or Thirty; some Septuagint manuscripts Three (see also 2 Sam. 23:8)] he raised his spear against three hundred men, whom he killed in one encounter.
11:12	Next to him was Eleazar son of Dodai the Ahohite, one of the three mighty men.
11:13	He was with David at Pas Dammim when the Philistines gathered there for battle. At a place where there was a field full of barley, the troops fled from the Philistines.
11:14	But they took their stand in the middle of the field. They defended it and struck the Philistines down, and the LORD brought about a great victory.
11:15	Three of the thirty chiefs came down to David to the rock at the cave of Adullam, while a band of Philistines was encamped in the Valley of Rephaim.
11:16	At that time David was in the stronghold, and the Philistine garrison was at Bethlehem.
11:17	David longed for water and said, “Oh, that someone would get me a drink of water from the well near the gate of Bethlehem!”
11:18	So the Three broke through the Philistine lines, drew water from the well near the gate of Bethlehem and carried it back to David. But he refused to drink it; instead, he poured it out before the LORD.
11:19	“God forbid that I should do this!” he said. “Should I drink the blood of these men who went at the risk of their lives?” Because they risked their lives to bring it back, David would not drink it. Such were the exploits of the three mighty men.
11:20	Abishai the brother of Joab was chief of the Three. He raised his spear against three hundred men, whom he killed, and so he became as famous as the Three.
11:21	He was doubly honoured above the Three and became their commander, even though he was not included among them.
11:22	Benaiah son of Jehoiada was a valiant fighter from Kabzeel, who performed great exploits. He struck down two of Moab’s best men. He also went down into a pit on a snowy day and killed a lion.
11:23	And he struck down an Egyptian who was seven and a half feet [Hebrew five cubits (about 2.3 metres)] tall. Although the Egyptian had a spear like a weaver’s rod in his hand, Benaiah went against him with a club. He snatched the spear from the Egyptian’s hand and killed him with his own spear.
11:24	Such were the exploits of Benaiah son of Jehoiada; he too was as famous as the three mighty men.
11:25	He was held in greater honour than any of the Thirty, but he was not included among the Three. And David put him in charge of his bodyguard.
11:26	The mighty men were: Asahel the brother of Joab, Elhanan son of Dodo from Bethlehem,
11:27	Shammoth the Harorite, Helez the Pelonite,
11:28	Ira son of Ikkesh from Tekoa, Abiezer from Anathoth,
11:29	Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite,
11:30	Maharai the Netophathite, Heled son of Baanah the Netophathite,
11:31	Ithai son of Ribai from Gibeah in Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite,
11:32	Hurai from the ravines of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite,
11:33	Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite,
11:34	the sons of Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan son of Shagee the Hararite,
11:35	Ahiam son of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal son of Ur,
11:36	Hepher the Mekerathite, Ahijah the Pelonite,
11:37	Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai son of Ezbai,
11:38	Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar son of Hagri,
11:39	Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite, the armour-bearer of Joab son of Zeruiah,
11:40	Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,
11:41	Uriah the Hittite, Zabad son of Ahlai,
11:42	Adina son of Shiza the Reubenite, who was chief of the Reubenites, and the thirty with him,
11:43	Hanan son of Maacah, Joshaphat the Mithnite,
11:44	Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jeiel the sons of Hotham the Aroerite,
11:45	Jediael son of Shimri, his brother Joha the Tizite,
11:46	Eliel the Mahavite, Jeribai and Joshaviah the sons of Elnaam, Ithmah the Moabite,
11:47	Eliel, Obed and Jaasiel the Mezobaite.
12:1	These were the men who came to David at Ziklag, while he was banished from the presence of Saul son of Kish (they were among the warriors who helped him in battle;
12:2	they were armed with bows and were able to shoot arrows or to sling stones right-handed or left-handed; they were kinsmen of Saul from the tribe of Benjamin):
12:3	Ahiezer their chief and Joash the sons of Shemaah the Gibeathite; Jeziel and Pelet the sons of Azmaveth; Beracah, Jehu the Anathothite,
12:4	and Ishmaiah the Gibeonite, a mighty man among the Thirty, who was a leader of the Thirty; Jeremiah, Jahaziel, Johanan, Jozabad the Gederathite,
12:5	Eluzai, Jerimoth, Bealiah, Shemariah and Shephatiah the Haruphite;
12:6	Elkanah, Isshiah, Azarel, Joezer and Jashobeam the Korahites;
12:7	and Joelah and Zebadiah the sons of Jeroham from Gedor.
12:8	Some Gadites defected to David at his stronghold in the desert. They were brave warriors, ready for battle and able to handle the shield and spear. Their faces were the faces of lions, and they were as swift as gazelles in the mountains.
12:9	Ezer was the chief, Obadiah the second in command, Eliab the third,
12:10	Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth,
12:11	Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh,
12:12	Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth,
12:13	Jeremiah the tenth and Macbannai the eleventh.
12:14	These Gadites were army commanders; the least was a match for a hundred, and the greatest for a thousand.
12:15	It was they who crossed the Jordan in the first month when it was overflowing all its banks, and they put to flight everyone living in the valleys, to the east and to the west.
12:16	Other Benjamites and some men from Judah also came to David in his stronghold.
12:17	David went out to meet them and said to them, “If you have come to me in peace, to help me, I am ready to have you unite with me. But if you have come to betray me to my enemies when my hands are free from violence, may the God of our fathers see it and judge you.”
12:18	Then the Spirit came upon Amasai, chief of the Thirty, and he said: “We are yours, O David! We are with you, O son of Jesse! Success, success to you, and success to those who help you, for your God will help you.” So David received them and made them leaders of his raiding bands.
12:19	Some of the men of Manasseh defected to David when he went with the Philistines to fight against Saul. (He and his men did not help the Philistines because, after consultation, their rulers sent him away. They said, “It will cost us our heads if he deserts to his master Saul.”)
12:20	When David went to Ziklag, these were the men of Manasseh who defected to him: Adnah, Jozabad, Jediael, Michael, Jozabad, Elihu and Zillethai, leaders of units of a thousand in Manasseh.
12:21	They helped David against raiding bands, for all of them were brave warriors, and they were commanders in his army.
12:22	Day after day men came to help David, until he had a great army, like the army of God. [Or a great and mighty army]
12:23	These are the numbers of the men armed for battle who came to David at Hebron to turn Saul’s kingdom over to him, as the LORD had said:
12:24	men of Judah, carrying shield and spear — 6,800 armed for battle;
12:25	men of Simeon, warriors ready for battle — 7,100;
12:26	men of Levi — 4,600,
12:27	including Jehoiada, leader of the family of Aaron with 3,700 men,
12:28	and Zadok, a brave young warrior, with 22 officers from his family;
12:29	men of Benjamin, Saul’s kinsmen — 3,000, most of whom had remained loyal to Saul’s house until then;
12:30	men of Ephraim, brave warriors, famous in their own clans — 20,800;
12:31	men of half the tribe of Manasseh, designated by name to come and make David king — 18,000;
12:32	men of Issachar, who understood the times and knew what Israel should do — 200 chiefs, with all their relatives under their command;
12:33	men of Zebulun, experienced soldiers prepared for battle with every type of weapon, to help David with undivided loyalty — 50,000;
12:34	men of Naphtali — 1,000 officers, together with 37,000 men carrying shields and spears;
12:35	men of Dan, ready for battle — 28,600;
12:36	men of Asher, experienced soldiers prepared for battle — 40,000;
12:37	and from east of the Jordan, men of Reuben, Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, armed with every type of weapon — 120,000.
12:38	All these were fighting men who volunteered to serve in the ranks. They came to Hebron fully determined to make David king over all Israel. All the rest of the Israelites were also of one mind to make David king.
12:39	The men spent three days there with David, eating and drinking, for their families had supplied provisions for them.
12:40	Also, their neighbours from as far away as Issachar, Zebulun and Naphtali came bringing food on donkeys, camels, mules and oxen. There were plentiful supplies of flour, fig cakes, raisin cakes, wine, oil, cattle and sheep, for there was joy in Israel.
13:1	David conferred with each of his officers, the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds.
13:2	He then said to the whole assembly of Israel, “If it seems good to you and if it is the will of the LORD our God, let us send word far and wide to the rest of our brothers throughout the territories of Israel, and also to the priests and Levites who are with them in their towns and pasture-lands, to come and join us.
13:3	Let us bring the ark of our God back to us, for we did not enquire of [Or we neglected] it [Or him] during the reign of Saul.”
13:4	The whole assembly agreed to do this, because it seemed right to all the people.
13:5	So David assembled all the Israelites, from the Shihor River in Egypt to Lebo [Or to the entrance to] Hamath, to bring the ark of God from Kiriath Jearim.
13:6	David and all the Israelites with him went to Baalah of Judah (Kiriath Jearim) to bring up from there the ark of God the LORD, who is enthroned between the cherubim — the ark that is called by the Name.
13:7	They moved the ark of God from Abinadab’s house on a new cart, with Uzzah and Ahio guiding it.
13:8	David and all the Israelites were celebrating with all their might before God, with songs and with harps, lyres, tambourines, cymbals and trumpets.
13:9	When they came to the threshing-floor of Kidon, Uzzah reached out his hand to steady the ark, because the oxen stumbled.
13:10	The LORD’s anger burned against Uzzah, and he struck him down because he had put his hand on the ark. So he died there before God.
13:11	Then David was angry because the LORD’s wrath had broken out against Uzzah, and to this day that place is called Perez Uzzah. [Perez Uzzah means outbreak against Uzzah.]
13:12	David was afraid of God that day and asked, “How can I ever bring the ark of God to me?”
13:13	He did not take the ark to be with him in the City of David. Instead, he took it aside to the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite.
13:14	The ark of God remained with the family of Obed-Edom in his house for three months, and the LORD blessed his household and everything he had.
14:1	Now Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, along with cedar logs, stonemasons and carpenters to build a palace for him.
14:2	And David knew that the LORD had established him as king over Israel and that his kingdom had been highly exalted for the sake of his people Israel.
14:3	In Jerusalem David took more wives and became the father of more sons and daughters.
14:4	These are the names of the children born to him there: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon,
14:5	Ibhar, Elishua, Elpelet,
14:6	Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia,
14:7	Elishama, Beeliada [A variant of Eliada] and Eliphelet.
14:8	When the Philistines heard that David had been anointed king over all Israel, they went up in full force to search for him, but David heard about it and went out to meet them.
14:9	Now the Philistines had come and raided the Valley of Rephaim;
14:10	so David enquired of God: “Shall I go and attack the Philistines? Will you hand them over to me?” The LORD answered him, “Go, I will hand them over to you.”
14:11	So David and his men went up to Baal Perazim, and there he defeated them. He said, “As waters break out, God has broken out against my enemies by my hand.” So that place was called Baal Perazim. [Baal Perazim means the lord who breaks out.]
14:12	The Philistines had abandoned their gods there, and David gave orders to burn them in the fire.
14:13	Once more the Philistines raided the valley;
14:14	so David enquired of God again, and God answered him, “Do not go straight up, but circle round them and attack them in front of the balsam trees.
14:15	As soon as you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the balsam trees, move out to battle, because that will mean God has gone out in front of you to strike the Philistine army.”
14:16	So David did as God commanded him, and they struck down the Philistine army, all the way from Gibeon to Gezer.
14:17	So David’s fame spread throughout every land, and the LORD made all the nations fear him.
15:1	After David had constructed buildings for himself in the City of David, he prepared a place for the ark of God and pitched a tent for it.
15:2	Then David said, “No-one but the Levites may carry the ark of God, because the LORD chose them to carry the ark of the LORD and to minister before him for ever.”
15:3	David assembled all Israel in Jerusalem to bring up the ark of the LORD to the place he had prepared for it.
15:4	He called together the descendants of Aaron and the Levites:
15:5	From the descendants of Kohath, Uriel the leader and 120 relatives;
15:6	from the descendants of Merari, Asaiah the leader and 220 relatives;
15:7	from the descendants of Gershon, [Hebrew Gershom, a variant of Gershon] Joel the leader and 130 relatives;
15:8	from the descendants of Elizaphan, Shemaiah the leader and 200 relatives;
15:9	from the descendants of Hebron, Eliel the leader and 80 relatives;
15:10	from the descendants of Uzziel, Amminadab the leader and 112 relatives.
15:11	Then David summoned Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel and Amminadab the Levites.
15:12	He said to them, “You are the heads of the Levitical families; you and your fellow Levites are to consecrate yourselves and bring up the ark of the LORD, the God of Israel, to the place I have prepared for it.
15:13	It was because you, the Levites, did not bring it up the first time that the LORD our God broke out in anger against us. We did not enquire of him about how to do it in the prescribed way.”
15:14	So the priests and Levites consecrated themselves in order to bring up the ark of the LORD, the God of Israel.
15:15	And the Levites carried the ark of God with the poles on their shoulders, as Moses had commanded in accordance with the word of the LORD.
15:16	David told the leaders of the Levites to appoint their brothers as singers to sing joyful songs, accompanied by musical instruments: lyres, harps and cymbals.
15:17	So the Levites appointed Heman son of Joel; from his brothers, Asaph son of Berekiah; and from their brothers the Merarites, Ethan son of Kushaiah;
15:18	and with them their brothers next in rank: Zechariah, [Three Hebrew manuscripts and most Septuagint manuscripts (see also verse 20 and 1 Chron. 16:5); most Hebrew manuscripts Zechariah son and or Zechariah, Ben and] Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-Edom and Jeiel, [Hebrew; Septuagint (see also verse 21) Jeiel and Azaziah] the gatekeepers.
15:19	The musicians Heman, Asaph and Ethan were to sound the bronze cymbals;
15:20	Zechariah, Aziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah and Benaiah were to play the lyres according to alamoth, [Probably a musical term]
15:21	and Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-Edom, Jeiel and Azaziah were to play the harps, directing according to sheminith. [Probably a musical term]
15:22	Kenaniah the head Levite was in charge of the singing; that was his responsibility because he was skilful at it.
15:23	Berekiah and Elkanah were to be doorkeepers for the ark.
15:24	Shebaniah, Joshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah and Eliezer the priests were to blow trumpets before the ark of God. Obed-Edom and Jehiah were also to be doorkeepers for the ark.
15:25	So David and the elders of Israel and the commanders of units of a thousand went to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD from the house of Obed-Edom, with rejoicing.
15:26	Because God had helped the Levites who were carrying the ark of the covenant of the LORD, seven bulls and seven rams were sacrificed.
15:27	Now David was clothed in a robe of fine linen, as were all the Levites who were carrying the ark, and as were the singers, and Kenaniah, who was in charge of the singing of the choirs. David also wore a linen ephod.
15:28	So all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the LORD with shouts, with the sounding of rams’ horns and trumpets, and of cymbals, and the playing of lyres and harps.
15:29	As the ark of the covenant of the LORD was entering the City of David, Michal daughter of Saul watched from a window. And when she saw King David dancing and celebrating, she despised him in her heart.
16:1	They brought the ark of God and set it inside the tent that David had pitched for it, and they presented burnt offerings and fellowship offerings [Traditionally peace offerings; also in verse 2] before God.
16:2	After David had finished sacrificing the burnt offerings and fellowship offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD.
16:3	Then he gave a loaf of bread, a cake of dates and a cake of raisins to each Israelite man and woman.
16:4	He appointed some of the Levites to minister before the ark of the LORD, to make petition, to give thanks, and to praise the LORD, the God of Israel:
16:5	Asaph was the chief, Zechariah second, then Jeiel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-Edom and Jeiel. They were to play the lyres and harps, Asaph was to sound the cymbals,
16:6	and Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests were to blow the trumpets regularly before the ark of the covenant of God.
16:7	That day David first committed to Asaph and his associates this psalm of thanks to the LORD:
16:8	Give thanks to the LORD, call on his name; make known among the nations what he has done.
16:9	Sing to him, sing praise to him; tell of all his wonderful acts.
16:10	Glory in his holy name; let the hearts of those who seek the LORD rejoice.
16:11	Look to the LORD and his strength; seek his face always.
16:12	Remember the wonders he has done, his miracles, and the judgments he pronounced,
16:13	descendants of Israel his servant, O sons of Jacob, his chosen ones.
16:14	He is the LORD our God; his judgments are in all the earth.
16:15	He remembers [Some Septuagint manuscripts (see also Psalm 105:8); Hebrew Remember] his covenant for ever, the word he commanded, for a thousand generations,
16:16	the covenant he made with Abraham, the oath he swore to Isaac.
16:17	He confirmed it to Jacob as a decree, to Israel as an everlasting covenant:
16:18	“To you I will give the land of Canaan as the portion you will inherit.”
16:19	When they were but few in number, few indeed, and strangers in it,
16:20	they [One Hebrew manuscript, Septuagint and Vulgate (see also Psalm 105:12); most Hebrew manuscripts inherit, 16:19 though you are but few in number, few indeed, and strangers in it.” 16:20 They] wandered from nation to nation, from one kingdom to another.
16:21	He allowed no man to oppress them; for their sake he rebuked kings:
16:22	“Do not touch my anointed ones; do my prophets no harm.”
16:23	Sing to the LORD, all the earth; proclaim his salvation day after day.
16:24	Declare his glory among the nations, his marvellous deeds among all peoples.
16:25	For great is the LORD and most worthy of praise; he is to be feared above all gods.
16:26	For all the gods of the nations are idols, but the LORD made the heavens.
16:27	Splendour and majesty are before him; strength and joy in his dwelling-place.
16:28	Ascribe to the LORD, O families of nations, ascribe to the LORD glory and strength,
16:29	ascribe to the LORD the glory due to his name. Bring an offering and come before him; worship the LORD in the splendour of his [Or LORD with the splendour of] holiness.
16:30	Tremble before him, all the earth! The world is firmly established; it cannot be moved.
16:31	Let the heavens rejoice, let the earth be glad; let them say among the nations, “The LORD reigns!”
16:32	Let the sea resound, and all that is in it; let the fields be jubilant, and everything in them!
16:33	Then the trees of the forest will sing, they will sing for joy before the LORD, for he comes to judge the earth.
16:34	Give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; his love endures for ever.
16:35	Cry out, “Save us, O God our Saviour; gather us and deliver us from the nations, that we may give thanks to your holy name, that we may glory in your praise.”
16:36	Praise be to the LORD, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting. Then all the people said “Amen” and “Praise the LORD.”
16:37	David left Asaph and his associates before the ark of the covenant of the LORD to minister there regularly, according to each day’s requirements.
16:38	He also left Obed-Edom and his sixty-eight associates to minister with them. Obed-Edom son of Jeduthun, and also Hosah, were gatekeepers.
16:39	David left Zadok the priest and his fellow priests before the tabernacle of the LORD at the high place in Gibeon
16:40	to present burnt offerings to the LORD on the altar of burnt offering regularly, morning and evening, in accordance with everything written in the Law of the LORD, which he had given Israel.
16:41	With them were Heman and Jeduthun and the rest of those chosen and designated by name to give thanks to the LORD, “for his love endures for ever.”
16:42	Heman and Jeduthun were responsible for the sounding of the trumpets and cymbals and for the playing of the other instruments for sacred song. The sons of Jeduthun were stationed at the gate.
16:43	Then all the people left, each for his own home, and David returned home to bless his family.
17:1	After David was settled in his palace, he said to Nathan the prophet, “Here I am, living in a palace of cedar, while the ark of the covenant of the LORD is under a tent.”
17:2	Nathan replied to David, “Whatever you have in mind, do it, for God is with you.”
17:3	That night the word of God came to Nathan, saying:
17:4	“Go and tell my servant David, `This is what the LORD says: You are not the one to build me a house to dwell in.
17:5	I have not dwelt in a house from the day I brought Israel up out of Egypt to this day. I have moved from one tent site to another, from one dwelling-place to another.
17:6	Wherever I have moved with all the Israelites, did I ever say to any of their leaders [Traditionally judges; also in verse 10] whom I commanded to shepherd my people, “Why have you not built me a house of cedar?”’
17:7	“Now then, tell my servant David, `This is what the LORD Almighty says: I took you from the pasture and from following the flock, to be ruler over my people Israel.
17:8	I have been with you wherever you have gone, and I have cut off all your enemies from before you. Now I will make your name like the names of the greatest men of the earth.
17:9	And I will provide a place for my people Israel and will plant them so that they can have a home of their own and no longer be disturbed. Wicked people will not oppress them any more, as they did at the beginning
17:10	and have done ever since the time I appointed leaders over my people Israel. I will also subdue all your enemies. “`I declare to you that the LORD will build a house for you:
17:11	When your days are over and you go to be with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring to succeed you, one of your own sons, and I will establish his kingdom.
17:12	He is the one who will build a house for me, and I will establish his throne for ever.
17:13	I will be his father, and he will be my son. I will never take my love away from him, as I took it away from your predecessor.
17:14	I will set him over my house and my kingdom for ever; his throne will be established for ever.’“
17:15	Nathan reported to David all the words of this entire revelation.
17:16	Then King David went in and sat before the LORD, and he said: “Who am I, O LORD God, and what is my family, that you have brought me this far?
17:17	And as if this were not enough in your sight, O God, you have spoken about the future of the house of your servant. You have looked on me as though I were the most exalted of men, O LORD God.
17:18	“What more can David say to you for honouring your servant? For you know your servant,
17:19	LORD. For the sake of your servant and according to your will, you have done this great thing and made known all these great promises.
17:20	“There is no-one like you, O LORD, and there is no God but you, as we have heard with our own ears.
17:21	And who is like your people Israel — the one nation on earth whose God went out to redeem a people for himself, and to make a name for yourself, and to perform great and awesome wonders by driving out nations from before your people, whom you redeemed from Egypt?
17:22	You made your people Israel your very own for ever, and you, O LORD, have become their God.
17:23	“And now, LORD, let the promise you have made concerning your servant and his house be established for ever. Do as you promised,
17:24	so that it will be established and that your name will be great for ever. Then men will say, `The LORD Almighty, the God over Israel, is Israel’s God!’ And the house of your servant David will be established before you.
17:25	“You, my God, have revealed to your servant that you will build a house for him. So your servant has found courage to pray to you.
17:26	LORD, you are God! You have promised these good things to your servant.
17:27	Now you have been pleased to bless the house of your servant, that it may continue for ever in your sight; for you, O LORD, have blessed it, and it will be blessed for ever.”
18:1	In the course of time, David defeated the Philistines and subdued them, and he took Gath and its surrounding villages from the control of the Philistines.
18:2	David also defeated the Moabites, and they became subject to him and brought tribute.
18:3	Moreover, David fought Hadadezer king of Zobah, as far as Hamath, when he went to establish his control along the Euphrates River.
18:4	David captured a thousand of his chariots, seven thousand charioteers and twenty thousand foot soldiers. He hamstrung all but a hundred of the chariot horses.
18:5	When the Arameans of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David struck down twenty-two thousand of them.
18:6	He put garrisons in the Aramean kingdom of Damascus, and the Arameans became subject to him and brought tribute. The LORD gave David victory everywhere he went.
18:7	David took the gold shields carried by the officers of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem.
18:8	From Tebah [Hebrew Tibhath, a variant of Tebah] and Cun, towns that belonged to Hadadezer, David took a great quantity of bronze, which Solomon used to make the bronze Sea, the pillars and various bronze articles.
18:9	When Tou king of Hamath heard that David had defeated the entire army of Hadadezer king of Zobah,
18:10	he sent his son Hadoram to King David to greet him and congratulate him on his victory in battle over Hadadezer, who had been at war with Tou. Hadoram brought all kinds of articles of gold and silver and bronze.
18:11	King David dedicated these articles to the LORD, as he had done with the silver and gold he had taken from all these nations: Edom and Moab, the Ammonites and the Philistines, and Amalek.
18:12	Abishai son of Zeruiah struck down eighteen thousand Edomites in the Valley of Salt.
18:13	He put garrisons in Edom, and all the Edomites became subject to David. The LORD gave David victory everywhere he went.
18:14	David reigned over all Israel, doing what was just and right for all his people.
18:15	Joab son of Zeruiah was over the army; Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was recorder;
18:16	Zadok son of Ahitub and Ahimelech [Some Hebrew manuscripts, Vulgate and Syriac (see also 2 Sam. 8:17); most Hebrew manuscripts Abimelech] son of Abiathar were priests; Shavsha was secretary;
18:17	Benaiah son of Jehoiada was over the Kerethites and Pelethites; and David’s sons were chief officials at the king’s side.
19:1	In the course of time, Nahash king of the Ammonites died, and his son succeeded him as king.
19:2	David thought, “I will show kindness to Hanun son of Nahash, because his father showed kindness to me.” So David sent a delegation to express his sympathy to Hanun concerning his father. When David’s men came to Hanun in the land of the Ammonites to express sympathy to him,
19:3	the Ammonite nobles said to Hanun, “Do you think David is honouring your father by sending men to you to express sympathy? Haven’t his men come to you to explore and spy out the country and overthrow it?”
19:4	So Hanun seized David’s men, shaved them, cut off their garments in the middle at the buttocks, and sent them away.
19:5	When someone came and told David about the men, he sent messengers to meet them, for they were greatly humiliated. The king said, “Stay at Jericho till your beards have grown, and then come back.”
19:6	When the Ammonites realised that they had become an offence to David’s nostrils, Hanun and the Ammonites sent a thousand talents [That is, about 34 tons (about 34 metric tons)] of silver to hire chariots and charioteers from Aram Naharaim, [That is, North-west Mesopotamia] Aram Maacah and Zobah.
19:7	They hired thirty-two thousand chariots and charioteers, as well as the king of Maacah with his troops, who came and camped near Medeba, while the Ammonites were mustered from their towns and moved out for battle.
19:8	On hearing this, David sent Joab out with the entire army of fighting men.
19:9	The Ammonites came out and drew up in battle formation at the entrance to their city, while the kings who had come were by themselves in the open country.
19:10	Joab saw that there were battle lines in front of him and behind him; so he selected some of the best troops in Israel and deployed them against the Arameans.
19:11	He put the rest of the men under the command of Abishai his brother, and they were deployed against the Ammonites.
19:12	Joab said, “If the Arameans are too strong for me, then you are to rescue me; but if the Ammonites are too strong for you, then I will rescue you.
19:13	Be strong and let us fight bravely for our people and the cities of our God. The LORD will do what is good in his sight.”
19:14	Then Joab and the troops with him advanced to fight the Arameans, and they fled before him.
19:15	When the Ammonites saw that the Arameans were fleeing, they too fled before his brother Abishai and went inside the city. So Joab went back to Jerusalem.
19:16	After the Arameans saw that they had been routed by Israel, they sent messengers and had Arameans brought from beyond the River, [That is, the Euphrates] with Shophach the commander of Hadadezer’s army leading them.
19:17	When David was told of this, he gathered all Israel and crossed the Jordan; he advanced against them and formed his battle lines opposite them. David formed his lines to meet the Arameans in battle, and they fought against him.
19:18	But they fled before Israel, and David killed seven thousand of their charioteers and forty thousand of their foot soldiers. He also killed Shophach the commander of their army.
19:19	When the vassals of Hadadezer saw that they had been defeated by Israel, they made peace with David and became subject to him. So the Arameans were not willing to help the Ammonites any more.
20:1	In the spring, at the time when kings go off to war, Joab led out the armed forces. He laid waste the land of the Ammonites and went to Rabbah and besieged it, but David remained in Jerusalem. Joab attacked Rabbah and left it in ruins.
20:2	David took the crown from the head of their king — [Or of Milcom, that is, Molech] its weight was found to be a talent [That is, about 75 pounds (about 34 kilograms)] of gold, and it was set with precious stones — and it was placed on David’s head. He took a great quantity of plunder from the city
20:3	and brought out the people who were there, consigning them to labour with saws and with iron picks and axes. David did this to all the Ammonite towns. Then David and his entire army returned to Jerusalem.
20:4	In the course of time, war broke out with the Philistines, at Gezer. At that time Sibbecai the Hushathite killed Sippai, one of the descendants of the Rephaites, and the Philistines were subjugated.
20:5	In another battle with the Philistines, Elhanan son of Jair killed Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, who had a spear with a shaft like a weaver’s rod.
20:6	In still another battle, which took place at Gath, there was a huge man with six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot — twenty-four in all. He also was descended from Rapha.
20:7	When he taunted Israel, Jonathan son of Shimea, David’s brother, killed him.
20:8	These were descendants of Rapha in Gath, and they fell at the hands of David and his men.
21:1	Satan rose up against Israel and incited David to take a census of Israel.
21:2	So David said to Joab and the commanders of the troops, “Go and count the Israelites from Beersheba to Dan. Then report back to me so that I may know how many there are.”
21:3	But Joab replied, “May the LORD multiply his troops a hundred times over. My lord the king, are they not all my lord’s subjects? Why does my lord want to do this? Why should he bring guilt on Israel?”
21:4	The king’s word, however, overruled Joab; so Joab left and went throughout Israel and then came back to Jerusalem.
21:5	Joab reported the number of the fighting men to David: In all Israel there were one million one hundred thousand men who could handle a sword, including four hundred and seventy thousand in Judah.
21:6	But Joab did not include Levi and Benjamin in the numbering, because the king’s command was repulsive to him.
21:7	This command was also evil in the sight of God; so he punished Israel.
21:8	Then David said to God, “I have sinned greatly by doing this. Now, I beg you, take away the guilt of your servant. I have done a very foolish thing.”
21:9	The LORD said to Gad, David’s seer,
21:10	“Go and tell David, `This is what the LORD says: I am giving you three options. Choose one of them for me to carry out against you.’“
21:11	So Gad went to David and said to him, “This is what the LORD says: `Take your choice:
21:12	three years of famine, three months of being swept away [Hebrew; Septuagint and Vulgate (see also 2 Sam. 24:13) of fleeing] before your enemies, with their swords overtaking you, or three days of the sword of the LORD — days of plague in the land, with the angel of the LORD ravaging every part of Israel.’ Now then, decide how I should answer the one who sent me.”
21:13	David said to Gad, “I am in deep distress. Let me fall into the hands of the LORD, for his mercy is very great; but do not let me fall into the hands of men.”
21:14	So the LORD sent a plague on Israel, and seventy thousand men of Israel fell dead.
21:15	And God sent an angel to destroy Jerusalem. But as the angel was doing so, the LORD saw it and was grieved because of the calamity and said to the angel who was destroying the people, “Enough! Withdraw your hand.” The angel of the LORD was then standing at the threshing-floor of Araunah [Hebrew Ornan, a variant of Araunah; also in verses 18-28] the Jebusite.
21:16	David looked up and saw the angel of the LORD standing between heaven and earth, with a drawn sword in his hand extended over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders, clothed in sackcloth, fell face down.
21:17	David said to God, “Was it not I who ordered the fighting men to be counted? I am the one who has sinned and done wrong. These are but sheep. What have they done? O LORD my God, let your hand fall upon me and my family, but do not let this plague remain on your people.”
21:18	Then the angel of the LORD ordered Gad to tell David to go up and build an altar to the LORD on the threshing-floor of Araunah the Jebusite.
21:19	So David went up in obedience to the word that Gad had spoken in the name of the LORD.
21:20	While Araunah was threshing wheat, he turned and saw the angel; his four sons who were with him hid themselves.
21:21	Then David approached, and when Araunah looked and saw him, he left the threshing-floor and bowed down before David with his face to the ground.
21:22	David said to him, “Let me have the site of your threshing-floor so that I can build an altar to the LORD, that the plague on the people may be stopped. Sell it to me at the full price.”
21:23	Araunah said to David, “Take it! Let my lord the king do whatever pleases him. Look, I will give the oxen for the burnt offerings, the threshing-sledges for the wood, and the wheat for the grain offering. I will give all this.”
21:24	But King David replied to Araunah, “No, I insist on paying the full price. I will not take for the LORD what is yours, or sacrifice a burnt offering that costs me nothing.”
21:25	So David paid Araunah six hundred shekels [That is, about 15 pounds (about 7 kilograms)] of gold for the site.
21:26	David built an altar to the LORD there and sacrificed burnt offerings and fellowship offerings. [Traditionally peace offerings] He called on the LORD, and the LORD answered him with fire from heaven on the altar of burnt offering.
21:27	Then the LORD spoke to the angel, and he put his sword back into its sheath.
21:28	At that time, when David saw that the LORD had answered him on the threshing-floor of Araunah the Jebusite, he offered sacrifices there.
21:29	The tabernacle of the LORD, which Moses had made in the desert, and the altar of burnt offering were at that time on the high place at Gibeon.
21:30	But David could not go before it to enquire of God, because he was afraid of the sword of the angel of the LORD.
22:1	Then David said, “The house of the LORD God is to be here, and also the altar of burnt offering for Israel.”
22:2	So David gave orders to assemble the aliens living in Israel, and from among them he appointed stonecutters to prepare dressed stone for building the house of God.
22:3	He provided a large amount of iron to make nails for the doors of the gateways and for the fittings, and more bronze than could be weighed.
22:4	He also provided more cedar logs than could be counted, for the Sidonians and Tyrians had brought large numbers of them to David.
22:5	David said, “My son Solomon is young and inexperienced, and the house to be built for the LORD should be of great magnificence and fame and splendour in the sight of all the nations. Therefore I will make preparations for it.” So David made extensive preparations before his death.
22:6	Then he called for his son Solomon and charged him to build a house for the LORD, the God of Israel.
22:7	David said to Solomon: “My son, I had it in my heart to build a house for the Name of the LORD my God.
22:8	But this word of the LORD came to me: `You have shed much blood and have fought many wars. You are not to build a house for my Name, because you have shed much blood on the earth in my sight.
22:9	But you will have a son who will be a man of peace and rest, and I will give him rest from all his enemies on every side. His name will be Solomon, [Solomon sounds like and may be derived from the Hebrew for peace.] and I will grant Israel peace and quiet during his reign.
22:10	He is the one who will build a house for my Name. He will be my son, and I will be his father. And I will establish the throne of his kingdom over Israel for ever.’
22:11	“Now, my son, the LORD be with you, and may you have success and build the house of the LORD your God, as he said you would.
22:12	May the LORD give you discretion and understanding when he puts you in command over Israel, so that you may keep the law of the LORD your God.
22:13	Then you will have success if you are careful to observe the decrees and laws that the LORD gave to Moses for Israel. Be strong and courageous. Do not be afraid or discouraged.
22:14	“I have taken great pains to provide for the temple of the LORD a hundred thousand talents [That is, about 3,395 tons (about 3,450 metric tons)] of gold, a million talents [That is, about 33,950 tons (about 34,500 metric tons)] of silver, quantities of bronze and iron too great to be weighed, and wood and stone. And you may add to them.
22:15	You have many workmen: stonecutters, masons and carpenters, as well as men skilled in every kind of work
22:16	in gold and silver, bronze and iron — craftsmen beyond number. Now begin the work, and the LORD be with you.”
22:17	Then David ordered all the leaders of Israel to help his son Solomon.
22:18	He said to them, “Is not the LORD your God with you? And has he not granted you rest on every side? For he has handed the inhabitants of the land over to me, and the land is subject to the LORD and to his people.
22:19	Now devote your heart and soul to seeking the LORD your God. Begin to build the sanctuary of the LORD God, so that you may bring the ark of the covenant of the LORD and the sacred articles belonging to God into the temple that will be built for the Name of the LORD.”
23:1	When David was old and full of years, he made his son Solomon king over Israel.
23:2	He also gathered together all the leaders of Israel, as well as the priests and Levites.
23:3	The Levites thirty years old or more were counted, and the total number of men was thirty-eight thousand.
23:4	David said, “Of these, twenty-four thousand are to supervise the work of the temple of the LORD and six thousand are to be officials and judges.
23:5	Four thousand are to be gatekeepers and four thousand are to praise the LORD with the musical instruments I have provided for that purpose.”
23:6	David divided the Levites into groups corresponding to the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath and Merari.
23:7	Belonging to the Gershonites: Ladan and Shimei.
23:8	The sons of Ladan: Jehiel the first, Zetham and Joel — three in all.
23:9	The sons of Shimei: Shelomoth, Haziel and Haran — three in all. These were the heads of the families of Ladan.
23:10	And the sons of Shimei: Jahath, Ziza, [One Hebrew manuscript, Septuagint and Vulgate (see also verse 11); most Hebrew manuscripts Zina] Jeush and Beriah. These were the sons of Shimei — four in all.
23:11	Jahath was the first and Ziza the second, but Jeush and Beriah did not have many sons; so they were counted as one family with one assignment.
23:12	The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel — four in all.
23:13	The sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses. Aaron was set apart, he and his descendants for ever, to consecrate the most holy things, to offer sacrifices before the LORD, to minister before him and to pronounce blessings in his name for ever.
23:14	The sons of Moses the man of God were counted as part of the tribe of Levi.
23:15	The sons of Moses: Gershom and Eliezer.
23:16	The descendants of Gershom: Shubael was the first.
23:17	The descendants of Eliezer: Rehabiah was the first. Eliezer had no other sons, but the sons of Rehabiah were very numerous.
23:18	The sons of Izhar: Shelomith was the first.
23:19	The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third and Jekameam the fourth.
23:20	The sons of Uzziel: Micah the first and Isshiah the second.
23:21	The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish.
23:22	Eleazar died without having sons: he had only daughters. Their cousins, the sons of Kish, married them.
23:23	The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder and Jerimoth — three in all.
23:24	These were the descendants of Levi by their families — the heads of families as they were registered under their names and counted individually, that is, the workers twenty years old or more who served in the temple of the LORD.
23:25	For David had said, “Since the LORD, the God of Israel, has granted rest to his people and has come to dwell in Jerusalem for ever,
23:26	the Levites no longer need to carry the tabernacle or any of the articles used in its service.”
23:27	According to the last instructions of David, the Levites were counted from those twenty years old or more.
23:28	The duty of the Levites was to help Aaron’s descendants in the service of the temple of the LORD: to be in charge of the courtyards, the side rooms, the purification of all sacred things and the performance of other duties at the house of God.
23:29	They were in charge of the bread set out on the table, the flour for the grain offerings, the unleavened wafers, the baking and the mixing, and all measurements of quantity and size.
23:30	They were also to stand every morning to thank and praise the LORD. They were to do the same in the evening
23:31	and whenever burnt offerings were presented to the LORD on Sabbaths and at New Moon festivals and at appointed feasts. They were to serve before the LORD regularly in the proper number and in the way prescribed for them.
23:32	And so the Levites carried out their responsibilities for the Tent of Meeting, for the Holy Place and, under their brothers the descendants of Aaron, for the service of the temple of the LORD.
24:1	These were the divisions of the sons of Aaron: The sons of Aaron were Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
24:2	But Nadab and Abihu died before their father did, and they had no sons; so Eleazar and Ithamar served as the priests.
24:3	With the help of Zadok a descendant of Eleazar and Ahimelech a descendant of Ithamar, David separated them into divisions for their appointed order of ministering.
24:4	A larger number of leaders were found among Eleazar’s descendants than among Ithamar’s, and they were divided accordingly: sixteen heads of families from Eleazar’s descendants and eight heads of families from Ithamar’s descendants.
24:5	They divided them impartially by drawing lots, for there were officials of the sanctuary and officials of God among the descendants of both Eleazar and Ithamar.
24:6	The scribe Shemaiah son of Nethanel, a Levite, recorded their names in the presence of the king and of the officials: Zadok the priest, Ahimelech son of Abiathar and the heads of families of the priests and of the Levites — one family being taken from Eleazar and then one from Ithamar.
24:7	The first lot fell to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,
24:8	the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim,
24:9	the fifth to Malkijah, the sixth to Mijamin,
24:10	the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah,
24:11	the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah,
24:12	the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim,
24:13	the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab,
24:14	the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer,
24:15	the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Happizzez,
24:16	the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezkel,
24:17	the twenty-first to Jakin, the twenty-second to Gamul,
24:18	the twenty-third to Delaiah and the twenty-fourth to Maaziah.
24:19	This was their appointed order of ministering when they entered the temple of the LORD, according to the regulations prescribed for them by their forefather Aaron, as the LORD, the God of Israel, had commanded him.
24:20	As for the rest of the descendants of Levi: from the sons of Amram: Shubael; from the sons of Shubael: Jehdeiah.
24:21	As for Rehabiah, from his sons: Isshiah was the first.
24:22	From the Izharites: Shelomoth; from the sons of Shelomoth: Jahath.
24:23	The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the first, [Two Hebrew manuscripts and some Septuagint manuscripts (see also 1 Chron. 23:19); most Hebrew manuscripts The sons of Jeriah:] Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third and Jekameam the fourth.
24:24	The son of Uzziel: Micah; from the sons of Micah: Shamir.
24:25	The brother of Micah: Isshiah; from the sons of Isshiah: Zechariah.
24:26	The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The son of Jaaziah: Beno.
24:27	The sons of Merari: from Jaaziah: Beno, Shoham, Zaccur and Ibri.
24:28	From Mahli: Eleazar, who had no sons.
24:29	From Kish: the son of Kish: Jerahmeel.
24:30	And the sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder and Jerimoth. These were the Levites, according to their families.
24:31	They also cast lots, just as their brothers the descendants of Aaron did, in the presence of King David and of Zadok, Ahimelech, and the heads of families of the priests and of the Levites. The families of the oldest brother were treated the same as those of the youngest.
25:1	David, together with the commanders of the army, set apart some of the sons of Asaph, Heman and Jeduthun for the ministry of prophesying, accompanied by harps, lyres and cymbals. Here is the list of the men who performed this service:
25:2	From the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, Joseph, Nethaniah and Asarelah. The sons of Asaph were under the supervision of Asaph, who prophesied under the king’s supervision.
25:3	As for Jeduthun, from his sons: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Shimei, [One Hebrew manuscript and some Septuagint manuscripts (see also verse 17); most Hebrew manuscripts do not have Shimei.] Hashabiah and Mattithiah, six in all, under the supervision of their father Jeduthun, who prophesied, using the harp in thanking and praising the LORD.
25:4	As for Heman, from his sons: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shubael and Jerimoth; Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti and Romamti-Ezer; Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir and Mahazioth.
25:5	All these were sons of Heman the king’s seer. They were given to him through the promises of God to exalt him. [Hebrew exalt the horn] God gave Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.
25:6	All these men were under the supervision of their fathers for the music of the temple of the LORD, with cymbals, lyres and harps, for the ministry at the house of God. Asaph, Jeduthun and Heman were under the supervision of the king.
25:7	Along with their relatives — all of them trained and skilled in music for the LORD — they numbered 288.
25:8	Young and old alike, teacher as well as student, cast lots for their duties.
25:9	The first lot, which was for Asaph, fell to Joseph, his sons and relatives, [See Septuagint; Hebrew does not have his sons and relatives.] 12 [See the total in verse 7; Hebrew does not have twelve.] the second to Gedaliah, he and his relatives and sons, 12
25:10	the third to Zaccur, his sons and relatives, 12
25:11	the fourth to Izri, [A variant of Zeri] his sons and relatives, 12
25:12	the fifth to Nethaniah, his sons and relatives, 12
25:13	the sixth to Bukkiah, his sons and relatives, 12
25:14	the seventh to Jesarelah, [A variant of Asarelah] his sons and relatives, 12
25:15	the eighth to Jeshaiah, his sons and relatives, 12
25:16	the ninth to Mattaniah, his sons and relatives, 12
25:17	the tenth to Shimei, his sons and relatives, 12
25:18	the eleventh to Azarel, [A variant of Uzziel] his sons and relatives, 12
25:19	the twelfth to Hashabiah, his sons and relatives, 12
25:20	the thirteenth to Shubael, his sons and relatives, 12
25:21	the fourteenth to Mattithiah, his sons and relatives, 12
25:22	the fifteenth to Jerimoth, his sons and relatives, 12
25:23	the sixteenth to Hananiah, his sons and relatives, 12
25:24	the seventeenth to Joshbekashah, his sons and relatives, 12
25:25	the eighteenth to Hanani, his sons and relatives, 12
25:26	the nineteenth to Mallothi, his sons and relatives, 12
25:27	the twentieth to Eliathah, his sons and relatives, 12
25:28	the twenty-first to Hothir, his sons and relatives, 12
25:29	the twenty-second to Giddalti, his sons and relatives, 12
25:30	the twenty-third to Mahazioth, his sons and relatives, 12
25:31	the twenty-fourth to Romamti-Ezer, his sons and relatives. 12
26:1	The divisions of the gatekeepers: From the Korahites: Meshelemiah son of Kore, one of the sons of Asaph.
26:2	Meshelemiah had sons: Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth,
26:3	Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth and Eliehoenai the seventh.
26:4	Obed-Edom also had sons: Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, Sacar the fourth, Nethanel the fifth,
26:5	Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh and Peullethai the eighth. (For God had blessed Obed-Edom.)
26:6	His son Shemaiah also had sons, who were leaders in their father’s family because they were very capable men.
26:7	The sons of Shemaiah: Othni, Rephael, Obed and Elzabad; his relatives Elihu and Semakiah were also able men.
26:8	All these were descendants of Obed-Edom; they and their sons and their relatives were capable men with the strength to do the work — descendants of Obed-Edom, 62 in all.
26:9	Meshelemiah had sons and relatives, who were able men — 18 in all.
26:10	Hosah the Merarite had sons: Shimri the first (although he was not the firstborn, his father had appointed him the first),
26:11	Hilkiah the second, Tabaliah the third and Zechariah the fourth. The sons and relatives of Hosah were 13 in all.
26:12	These divisions of the gatekeepers, through their chief men, had duties for ministering in the temple of the LORD, just as their relatives had.
26:13	Lots were cast for each gate, according to their families, young and old alike.
26:14	The lot for the East Gate fell to Shelemiah. [A variant of Meshelemiah] Then lots were cast for his son Zechariah, a wise counsellor, and the lot for the North Gate fell to him.
26:15	The lot for the South Gate fell to Obed-Edom, and the lot for the storehouse fell to his sons.
26:16	The lots for the West Gate and the Shalleketh Gate on the upper road fell to Shuppim and Hosah. Guard was alongside guard:
26:17	There were six Levites a day on the east, four a day on the north, four a day on the south and two at a time at the storehouse.
26:18	As for the court to the west, there were four at the road and two at the court itself.
26:19	These were the divisions of the gatekeepers who were descendants of Korah and Merari.
26:20	Their fellow Levites were [Septuagint; Hebrew As for the Levites, Ahijah was] in charge of the treasuries of the house of God and the treasuries for the dedicated things.
26:21	The descendants of Ladan, who were Gershonites through Ladan and who were heads of families belonging to Ladan the Gershonite, were Jehieli,
26:22	the sons of Jehieli, Zetham and his brother Joel. They were in charge of the treasuries of the temple of the LORD.
26:23	From the Amramites, the Izharites, the Hebronites and the Uzzielites:
26:24	Shubael, a descendant of Gershom son of Moses, was the officer in charge of the treasuries.
26:25	His relatives through Eliezer: Rehabiah his son, Jeshaiah his son, Joram his son, Zicri his son and Shelomith his son.
26:26	Shelomith and his relatives were in charge of all the treasuries for the things dedicated by King David, by the heads of families who were the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds, and by the other army commanders.
26:27	Some of the plunder taken in battle they dedicated for the repair of the temple of the LORD.
26:28	And everything dedicated by Samuel the seer and by Saul son of Kish, Abner son of Ner and Joab son of Zeruiah, and all the other dedicated things were in the care of Shelomith and his relatives.
26:29	From the Izharites: Kenaniah and his sons were assigned duties away from the temple, as officials and judges over Israel.
26:30	From the Hebronites: Hashabiah and his relatives — seventeen hundred able men — were responsible in Israel west of the Jordan for all the work of the LORD and for the king’s service.
26:31	As for the Hebronites, Jeriah was their chief according to the genealogical records of their families. In the fortieth year of David’s reign a search was made in the records, and capable men among the Hebronites were found at Jazer in Gilead.
26:32	Jeriah had two thousand seven hundred relatives, who were able men and heads of families, and King David put them in charge of the Reubenites, the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh for every matter pertaining to God and for the affairs of the king.
27:1	This is the list of the Israelites — heads of families, commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds, and their officers, who served the king in all that concerned the army divisions that were on duty month by month throughout the year. Each division consisted of 24,000 men.
27:2	In charge of the first division, for the first month, was Jashobeam son of Zabdiel. There were 24,000 men in his division.
27:3	He was a descendant of Perez and chief of all the army officers for the first month.
27:4	In charge of the division for the second month was Dodai the Ahohite; Mikloth was the leader of his division. There were 24,000 men in his division.
27:5	The third army commander, for the third month, was Benaiah son of Jehoiada the priest. He was chief and there were 24,000 men in his division.
27:6	This was the Benaiah who was a mighty man among the Thirty and was over the Thirty. His son Ammizabad was in charge of his division.
27:7	The fourth, for the fourth month, was Asahel the brother of Joab; his son Zebadiah was his successor. There were 24,000 men in his division.
27:8	The fifth, for the fifth month, was the commander Shamhuth the Izrahite. There were 24,000 men in his division.
27:9	The sixth, for the sixth month, was Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite. There were 24,000 men in his division.
27:10	The seventh, for the seventh month, was Helez the Pelonite, an Ephraimite. There were 24,000 men in his division.
27:11	The eighth, for the eighth month, was Sibbecai the Hushathite, a Zerahite. There were 24,000 men in his division.
27:12	The ninth, for the ninth month, was Abiezer the Anathothite, a Benjamite. There were 24,000 men in his division.
27:13	The tenth, for the tenth month, was Maharai the Netophathite, a Zerahite. There were 24,000 men in his division.
27:14	The eleventh, for the eleventh month, was Benaiah the Pirathonite, an Ephraimite. There were 24,000 men in his division.
27:15	The twelfth, for the twelfth month, was Heldai the Netophathite, from the family of Othniel. There were 24,000 men in his division.
27:16	The officers over the tribes of Israel: over the Reubenites: Eliezer son of Zicri; over the Simeonites: Shephatiah son of Maacah;
27:17	over Levi: Hashabiah son of Kemuel; over Aaron: Zadok;
27:18	over Judah: Elihu, a brother of David; over Issachar: Omri son of Michael;
27:19	over Zebulun: Ishmaiah son of Obadiah; over Naphtali: Jerimoth son of Azriel;
27:20	over the Ephraimites: Hoshea son of Azaziah; over half the tribe of Manasseh: Joel son of Pedaiah;
27:21	over the half-tribe of Manasseh in Gilead: Iddo son of Zechariah; over Benjamin: Jaasiel son of Abner;
27:22	over Dan: Azarel son of Jeroham. These were the officers over the tribes of Israel.
27:23	David did not take the number of the men twenty years old or less, because the LORD had promised to make Israel as numerous as the stars in the sky.
27:24	Joab son of Zeruiah began to count the men but did not finish. Wrath came on Israel on account of this numbering, and the number was not entered in the book [Septuagint; Hebrew number] of the annals of King David.
27:25	Azmaveth son of Adiel was in charge of the royal storehouses. Jonathan son of Uzziah was in charge of the storehouses in the outlying districts, in the towns, the villages and the watchtowers.
27:26	Ezri son of Kelub was in charge of the field workers who farmed the land.
27:27	Shimei the Ramathite was in charge of the vineyards. Zabdi the Shiphmite was in charge of the produce of the vineyards for the wine vats.
27:28	Baal-Hanan the Gederite was in charge of the olive and sycamore-fig trees in the western foothills. Joash was in charge of the supplies of olive oil.
27:29	Shitrai the Sharonite was in charge of the herds grazing in Sharon. Shaphat son of Adlai was in charge of the herds in the valleys.
27:30	Obil the Ishmaelite was in charge of the camels. Jehdeiah the Meronothite was in charge of the donkeys.
27:31	Jaziz the Hagrite was in charge of the flocks. All these were the officials in charge of King David’s property.
27:32	Jonathan, David’s uncle, was a counsellor, a man of insight and a scribe. Jehiel son of Hacmoni took care of the king’s sons.
27:33	Ahithophel was the king’s counsellor. Hushai the Arkite was the king’s friend.
27:34	Ahithophel was succeeded by Jehoiada son of Benaiah and by Abiathar. Joab was the commander of the royal army.
28:1	David summoned all the officials of Israel to assemble at Jerusalem: the officers over the tribes, the commanders of the divisions in the service of the king, the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds, and the officials in charge of all the property and livestock belonging to the king and his sons, together with the palace officials, the mighty men and all the brave warriors.
28:2	King David rose to his feet and said: “Listen to me, my brothers and my people. I had it in my heart to build a house as a place of rest for the ark of the covenant of the LORD, for the footstool of our God, and I made plans to build it.
28:3	But God said to me, `You are not to build a house for my Name, because you are a warrior and have shed blood.’
28:4	“Yet the LORD, the God of Israel, chose me from my whole family to be king over Israel for ever. He chose Judah as leader, and from the house of Judah he chose my family, and from my father’s sons he was pleased to make me king over all Israel.
28:5	Of all my sons — and the LORD has given me many — he has chosen my son Solomon to sit on the throne of the kingdom of the LORD over Israel.
28:6	He said to me, `Solomon your son is the one who will build my house and my courts, for I have chosen him to be my son, and I will be his father.
28:7	I will establish his kingdom for ever if he is unswerving in carrying out my commands and laws, as is being done at this time.’
28:8	“So now I charge you in the sight of all Israel and of the assembly of the LORD, and in the hearing of our God: Be careful to follow all the commands of the LORD your God, that you may possess this good land and pass it on as an inheritance to your descendants for ever.
28:9	“And you, my son Solomon, acknowledge the God of your father, and serve him with wholehearted devotion and with a willing mind, for the LORD searches every heart and understands every motive behind the thoughts. If you seek him, he will be found by you; but if you forsake him, he will reject you for ever.
28:10	Consider now, for the LORD has chosen you to build a temple as a sanctuary. Be strong and do the work.”
28:11	Then David gave his son Solomon the plans for the portico of the temple, its buildings, its storerooms, its upper parts, its inner rooms and the place of atonement.
28:12	He gave him the plans of all that the Spirit had put in his mind for the courts of the temple of the LORD and all the surrounding rooms, for the treasuries of the temple of God and for the treasuries for the dedicated things.
28:13	He gave him instructions for the divisions of the priests and Levites, and for all the work of serving in the temple of the LORD, as well as for all the articles to be used in its service.
28:14	He designated the weight of gold for all the gold articles to be used in various kinds of service, and the weight of silver for all the silver articles to be used in various kinds of service:
28:15	the weight of gold for the gold lampstands and their lamps, with the weight for each lampstand and its lamps; and the weight of silver for each silver lampstand and its lamps, according to the use of each lampstand;
28:16	the weight of gold for each table for consecrated bread; the weight of silver for the silver tables;
28:17	the weight of pure gold for the forks, sprinkling bowls and pitchers; the weight of gold for each gold dish; the weight of silver for each silver dish;
28:18	and the weight of the refined gold for the altar of incense. He also gave him the plan for the chariot, that is, the cherubim of gold that spread their wings and shelter the ark of the covenant of the LORD.
28:19	“All this,” David said, “I have in writing from the hand of the LORD upon me, and he gave me understanding in all the details of the plan.”
28:20	David also said to Solomon his son, “Be strong and courageous, and do the work. Do not be afraid or discouraged, for the LORD God, my God, is with you. He will not fail you or forsake you until all the work for the service of the temple of the LORD is finished.
28:21	The divisions of the priests and Levites are ready for all the work on the temple of God, and every willing man skilled in any craft will help you in all the work. The officials and all the people will obey your every command.”
29:1	Then King David said to the whole assembly: “My son Solomon, the one whom God has chosen, is young and inexperienced. The task is great, because this palatial structure is not for man but for the LORD God.
29:2	With all my resources I have provided for the temple of my God — gold for the gold work, silver for the silver, bronze for the bronze, iron for the iron and wood for the wood, as well as onyx for the settings, turquoise, [The meaning of the Hebrew for this word is uncertain.] stones of various colours, and all kinds of fine stone and marble — all of these in large quantities.
29:3	Besides, in my devotion to the temple of my God I now give my personal treasures of gold and silver for the temple of my God, over and above everything I have provided for this holy temple:
29:4	three thousand talents [That is, about 100 tons (about 100 metric tons)] of gold (gold of Ophir) and seven thousand talents [That is, about 240 tons (about 240 metric tons)] of refined silver, for the overlaying of the walls of the buildings,
29:5	for the gold work and the silver work, and for all the work to be done by the craftsmen. Now, who is willing to consecrate himself today to the LORD?”
29:6	Then the leaders of families, the officers of the tribes of Israel, the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds, and the officials in charge of the king’s work gave willingly.
29:7	They gave towards the work on the temple of God five thousand talents [That is, about 170 tons (about 170 metric tons)] and ten thousand darics [That is, about 185 pounds (about 84 kilograms)] of gold, ten thousand talents [That is, about 340 tons (about 345 metric tons)] of silver, eighteen thousand talents [That is, about 610 tons (about 620 metric tons)] of bronze and a hundred thousand talents [That is, about 3,400 tons (about 3,450 metric tons)] of iron.
29:8	Any who had precious stones gave them to the treasury of the temple of the LORD in the custody of Jehiel the Gershonite.
29:9	The people rejoiced at the willing response of their leaders, for they had given freely and wholeheartedly to the LORD. David the king also rejoiced greatly.
29:10	David praised the LORD in the presence of the whole assembly, saying, “Praise be to you, O LORD, God of our father Israel, from everlasting to everlasting.
29:11	Yours, O LORD, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the majesty and the splendour, for everything in heaven and earth is yours. Yours, O LORD, is the kingdom; you are exalted as head over all.
29:12	Wealth and honour come from you; you are the ruler of all things. In your hands are strength and power to exalt and give strength to all.
29:13	Now, our God, we give you thanks, and praise your glorious name.
29:14	“But who am I, and who are my people, that we should be able to give as generously as this? Everything comes from you, and we have given you only what comes from your hand.
29:15	We are aliens and strangers in your sight, as were all our forefathers. Our days on earth are like a shadow, without hope.
29:16	LORD our God, as for all this abundance that we have provided for building you a temple for your Holy Name, it comes from your hand, and all of it belongs to you.
29:17	I know, my God, that you test the heart and are pleased with integrity. All these things have I given willingly and with honest intent. And now I have seen with joy how willingly your people who are here have given to you.
29:18	LORD, God of our fathers Abraham, Isaac and Israel, keep this desire in the hearts of your people for ever, and keep their hearts loyal to you.
29:19	And give my son Solomon the wholehearted devotion to keep your commands, requirements and decrees and to do everything to build the palatial structure for which I have provided.”
29:20	Then David said to the whole assembly, “Praise the LORD your God.” So they all praised the LORD, the God of their fathers; they bowed low and fell prostrate before the LORD and the king.
29:21	The next day they made sacrifices to the LORD and presented burnt offerings to him: a thousand bulls, a thousand rams and a thousand male lambs, together with their drink offerings, and other sacrifices in abundance for all Israel.
29:22	They ate and drank with great joy in the presence of the LORD that day. Then they acknowledged Solomon son of David as king a second time, anointing him before the LORD to be ruler and Zadok to be priest.
29:23	So Solomon sat on the throne of the LORD as king in place of his father David. He prospered and all Israel obeyed him.
29:24	All the officers and mighty men, as well as all of King David’s sons, pledged their submission to King Solomon.
29:25	The LORD highly exalted Solomon in the sight of all Israel and bestowed on him royal splendour such as no king over Israel ever had before.
29:26	David son of Jesse was king over all Israel.
29:27	He ruled over Israel for forty years — seven in Hebron and thirty-three in Jerusalem.
29:28	He died at a good old age, having enjoyed long life, wealth and honour. His son Solomon succeeded him as king.
29:29	As for the events of King David’s reign, from beginning to end, they are written in the records of Samuel the seer, the records of Nathan the prophet and the records of Gad the seer,
29:30	together with the details of his reign and power, and the circumstances that surrounded him and Israel and the kingdoms of all the other lands.

# NIV84 2 Chronicles — converted from PDF (AGES Digital Library transcription of the New International Version, 1984 edition); source PDF pages 1003-1088
1:1	Solomon son of David established himself firmly over his kingdom, for the LORD his God was with him and made him exceedingly great.
1:2	Then Solomon spoke to all Israel — to the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds, to the judges and to all the leaders in Israel, the heads of families —
1:3	and Solomon and the whole assembly went to the high place at Gibeon, for God’s Tent of Meeting was there, which Moses the LORD’s servant had made in the desert.
1:4	Now David had brought up the ark of God from Kiriath Jearim to the place he had prepared for it, because he had pitched a tent for it in Jerusalem.
1:5	But the bronze altar that Bezalel son of Uri, the son of Hur, had made was in Gibeon in front of the tabernacle of the LORD; so Solomon and the assembly enquired of him there.
1:6	Solomon went up to the bronze altar before the LORD in the Tent of Meeting and offered a thousand burnt offerings on it.
1:7	That night God appeared to Solomon and said to him, “Ask for whatever you want me to give you.”
1:8	Solomon answered God, “You have shown great kindness to David my father and have made me king in his place.
1:9	Now, LORD God, let your promise to my father David be confirmed, for you have made me king over a people who are as numerous as the dust of the earth.
1:10	Give me wisdom and knowledge, that I may lead this people, for who is able to govern this great people of yours?”
1:11	God said to Solomon, “Since this is your heart’s desire and you have not asked for wealth, riches or honour, nor for the death of your enemies, and since you have not asked for a long life but for wisdom and knowledge to govern my people over whom I have made you king,
1:12	therefore wisdom and knowledge will be given you. And I will also give you wealth, riches and honour, such as no king who was before you ever had and none after you will have.”
1:13	Then Solomon went to Jerusalem from the high place at Gibeon, from before the Tent of Meeting. And he reigned over Israel.
1:14	Solomon accumulated chariots and horses; he had fourteen hundred chariots and twelve thousand horses, [Or charioteers] which he kept in the chariot cities and also with him in Jerusalem.
1:15	The king made silver and gold as common in Jerusalem as stones, and cedar as plentiful as sycamore-fig trees in the foothills.
1:16	Solomon’s horses were imported from Egypt — [Or possibly Muzur, a region in Cilicia; also in verse 17] and from Kue [Probably Cilicia] the royal merchants purchased them from Kue.
1:17	They imported a chariot from Egypt for six hundred shekels [That is, about 15 pounds (about 7 kilograms)] of silver, and a horse for a hundred and fifty. [That is, about 3 3/4 pounds (about 1.7 kilograms)] They also exported them to all the kings of the Hittites and of the Arameans.
2:1	Solomon gave orders to build a temple for the Name of the LORD and a royal palace for himself.
2:2	He conscripted seventy thousand men as carriers and eighty thousand as stonecutters in the hills and thirty-six hundred as foremen over them.
2:3	Solomon sent this message to Hiram [Hebrew Huram, a variant of Hiram; also in verses 11 and 12] king of Tyre: “Send me cedar logs as you did for my father David when you sent him cedar to build a palace to live in.
2:4	Now I am about to build a temple for the Name of the LORD my God and to dedicate it to him for burning fragrant incense before him, for setting out the consecrated bread regularly, and for making burnt offerings every morning and evening and on Sabbaths and New Moons and at the appointed feasts of the LORD our God. This is a lasting ordinance for Israel.
2:5	“The temple I am going to build will be great, because our God is greater than all other gods.
2:6	But who is able to build a temple for him, since the heavens, even the highest heavens, cannot contain him? Who then am I to build a temple for him, except as a place to burn sacrifices before him?
2:7	“Send me, therefore, a man skilled to work in gold and silver, bronze and iron, and in purple, crimson and blue yarn, and experienced in the art of engraving, to work in Judah and Jerusalem with my skilled craftsmen, whom my father David provided.
2:8	“Send me also cedar, pine and algum [Probably a variant of almug; possibly juniper] logs from Lebanon, for I know that your men are skilled in cutting timber there. My men shall work with yours
2:9	to provide me with plenty of timber, because the temple I build must be large and magnificent.
2:10	I will give your servants, the woodsmen who cut the timber, twenty thousand cors [That is, probably about 120,000 bushels (about 4,400 kilolitres)] of ground wheat, twenty thousand cors of barley, twenty thousand baths [That is, probably about 95,000 gallons (about 440 kilolitres)] of wine and twenty thousand baths of olive oil.”
2:11	Hiram king of Tyre replied by letter to Solomon: “Because the LORD loves his people, he has made you their king.”
2:12	And Hiram added: “Praise be to the LORD, the God of Israel, who made heaven and earth! He has given King David a wise son, endowed with intelligence and discernment, who will build a temple for the LORD and a palace for himself.
2:13	“I am sending you Huram-Abi, a man of great skill,
2:14	whose mother was from Dan and whose father was from Tyre. He is trained to work in gold and silver, bronze and iron, stone and wood, and with purple and blue and crimson yarn and fine linen. He is experienced in all kinds of engraving and can execute any design given to him. He will work with your craftsmen and with those of my lord, David your father.
2:15	“Now let my lord send his servants the wheat and barley and the olive oil and wine he promised,
2:16	and we will cut all the logs from Lebanon that you need and will float them in rafts by sea down to Joppa. You can then take them up to Jerusalem.”
2:17	Solomon took a census of all the aliens who were in Israel, after the census his father David had taken; and they were found to be 153,600.
2:18	He assigned 70,000 of them to be carriers and 80,000 to be stonecutters in the hills, with 3,600 foremen over them to keep the people working.
3:1	Then Solomon began to build the temple of the LORD in Jerusalem on Mount Moriah, where the LORD had appeared to his father David. It was on the threshing-floor of Araunah [Hebrew Ornan, a variant of Araunah] the Jebusite, the place provided by David.
3:2	He began building on the second day of the second month in the fourth year of his reign.
3:3	The foundation Solomon laid for building the temple of God was sixty cubits long and twenty cubits wide [That is, about 90 feet (about 27 metres) long and 30 feet (about 9 metres) wide] (using the cubit of the old standard).
3:4	The portico at the front of the temple was twenty cubits [That is, about 30 feet (about 9 metres); also in verses 8, 11 and 13] long across the width of the building and twenty cubits [Some Septuagint and Syriac manuscripts; Hebrew and a hundred and twenty] high. He overlaid the inside with pure gold.
3:5	He panelled the main hall with pine and covered it with fine gold and decorated it with palm tree and chain designs.
3:6	He adorned the temple with precious stones. And the gold he used was gold of Parvaim.
3:7	He overlaid the ceiling beams, door-frames, walls and doors of the temple with gold, and he carved cherubim on the walls.
3:8	He built the Most Holy Place, its length corresponding to the width of the temple — twenty cubits long and twenty cubits wide. He overlaid the inside with six hundred talents [That is, about 20 tons (about 21 metric tons)] of fine gold.
3:9	The gold nails weighed fifty shekels. [That is, about 1 1/4 pounds (about 0.6 kilogram)] He also overlaid the upper parts with gold.
3:10	In the Most Holy Place he made a pair of sculptured cherubim and overlaid them with gold.
3:11	The total wing-span of the cherubim was twenty cubits. One wing of the first cherub was five cubits [That is, about 7 1/2 feet (about 2.3 metres); also in verse 15] long and touched the temple wall, while its other wing, also five cubits long, touched the wing of the other cherub.
3:12	Similarly one wing of the second cherub was five cubits long and touched the other temple wall, and its other wing, also five cubits long, touched the wing of the first cherub.
3:13	The wings of these cherubim extended twenty cubits. They stood on their feet, facing the main hall. [Or facing inward]
3:14	He made the curtain of blue, purple and crimson yarn and fine linen, with cherubim worked into it.
3:15	In the front of the temple he made two pillars, which together were thirty-five cubits [That is, about 52 feet (about 16 metres)] long, each with a capital on top measuring five cubits.
3:16	He made interwoven chains [Or possibly made chains in the inner sanctuary; the meaning of the Hebrew for this phrase is uncertain.] and put them on top of the pillars. He also made a hundred pomegranates and attached them to the chains.
3:17	He erected the pillars in the front of the temple, one to the south and one to the north. The one to the south he named Jakin [Jakin probably means he establishes.] and the one to the north Boaz. [Boaz probably means in him is strength.]
4:1	He made a bronze altar twenty cubits long, twenty cubits wide and ten cubits high. [That is, about 30 feet (about 9 metres) long and wide, and about 15 feet (about 4.5 metres) high]
4:2	He made the Sea of cast metal, circular in shape, measuring ten cubits from rim to rim and five cubits [That is, about 7 1/2 feet (about 2.3 metres)] high. It took a line of thirty cubits [That is, about 45 feet (about 13.5 metres)] to measure round it.
4:3	Below the rim, figures of bulls encircled it — ten to a cubit. [That is, about 1 1/2 feet (about 0.5 metre)] The bulls were cast in two rows in one piece with the Sea.
4:4	The Sea stood on twelve bulls, three facing north, three facing west, three facing south and three facing east. The Sea rested on top of them, and their hindquarters were towards the centre.
4:5	It was a handbreadth [That is, about 3 inches (about 8 centimetres)] in thickness, and its rim was like the rim of a cup, like a lily blossom. It held three thousand baths. [That is, about 14,500 gallons (about 66 kilolitres)]
4:6	He then made ten basins for washing and placed five on the south side and five on the north. In them the things to be used for the burnt offerings were rinsed, but the Sea was to be used by the priests for washing.
4:7	He made ten gold lampstands according to the specifications for them and placed them in the temple, five on the south side and five on the north.
4:8	He made ten tables and placed them in the temple, five on the south side and five on the north. He also made a hundred gold sprinkling bowls.
4:9	He made the courtyard of the priests, and the large court and the doors for the court, and overlaid the doors with bronze.
4:10	He placed the Sea on the south side, at the south-east corner.
4:11	He also made the pots and shovels and sprinkling bowls. So Huram finished the work he had undertaken for King Solomon in the temple of God:
4:12	the two pillars; the two bowl-shaped capitals on top of the pillars; the two sets of network decorating the two bowl-shaped capitals on top of the pillars;
4:13	the four hundred pomegranates for the two sets of network (two rows of pomegranates for each network, decorating the bowl-shaped capitals on top of the pillars);
4:14	the stands with their basins;
4:15	the Sea and the twelve bulls under it;
4:16	the pots, shovels, meat forks and all related articles. All the objects that Huram-Abi made for King Solomon for the temple of the LORD were of polished bronze.
4:17	The king had them cast in clay moulds in the plain of the Jordan between Succoth and Zarethan. [Hebrew Zeredatha, a variant of Zarethan]
4:18	All these things that Solomon made amounted to so much that the weight of the bronze was not determined.
4:19	Solomon also made all the furnishings that were in God’s temple: the golden altar; the tables on which was the bread of the Presence;
4:20	the lampstands of pure gold with their lamps, to burn in front of the inner sanctuary as prescribed;
4:21	the gold floral work and lamps and tongs (they were solid gold);
4:22	the pure gold wick trimmers, sprinkling bowls, dishes and censers; and the gold doors of the temple: the inner doors to the Most Holy Place and the doors of the main hall.
5:1	When all the work Solomon had done for the temple of the LORD was finished, he brought in the things his father David had dedicated — the silver and gold and all the furnishings — and he placed them in the treasuries of God’s temple.
5:2	Then Solomon summoned to Jerusalem the elders of Israel, all the heads of the tribes and the chiefs of the Israelite families, to bring up the ark of the LORD’s covenant from Zion, the City of David.
5:3	And all the men of Israel came together to the king at the time of the festival in the seventh month.
5:4	When all the elders of Israel had arrived, the Levites took up the ark,
5:5	and they brought up the ark and the Tent of Meeting and all the sacred furnishings in it. The priests, who were Levites, carried them up;
5:6	and King Solomon and the entire assembly of Israel that had gathered about him were before the ark, sacrificing so many sheep and cattle that they could not be recorded or counted.
5:7	The priests then brought the ark of the LORD’s covenant to its place in the inner sanctuary of the temple, the Most Holy Place, and put it beneath the wings of the cherubim.
5:8	The cherubim spread their wings over the place of the ark and covered the ark and its carrying poles.
5:9	These poles were so long that their ends, extending from the ark, could be seen from in front of the inner sanctuary, but not from outside the Holy Place; and they are still there today.
5:10	There was nothing in the ark except the two tablets that Moses had placed in it at Horeb, where the LORD made a covenant with the Israelites after they came out of Egypt.
5:11	The priests then withdrew from the Holy Place. All the priests who were there had consecrated themselves, regardless of their divisions.
5:12	All the Levites who were musicians — Asaph, Heman, Jeduthun and their sons and relatives — stood on the east side of the altar, dressed in fine linen and playing cymbals, harps and lyres. They were accompanied by 120 priests sounding trumpets.
5:13	The trumpeters and singers joined in unison, as with one voice, to give praise and thanks to the LORD. Accompanied by trumpets, cymbals and other instruments, they raised their voices in praise to the LORD and sang: “He is good; his love endures for ever.” Then the temple of the LORD was filled with a cloud,
5:14	and the priests could not perform their service because of the cloud, for the glory of the LORD filled the temple of God.
6:1	Then Solomon said, “The LORD has said that he would dwell in a dark cloud;
6:2	I have built a magnificent temple for you, a place for you to dwell for ever.”
6:3	While the whole assembly of Israel was standing there, the king turned round and blessed them.
6:4	Then he said: “Praise be to the LORD, the God of Israel, who with his hands has fulfilled what he promised with his mouth to my father David. For he said,
6:5	`Since the day I brought my people out of Egypt, I have not chosen a city in any tribe of Israel to have a temple built for my Name to be there, nor have I chosen anyone to be the leader over my people Israel.
6:6	But now I have chosen Jerusalem for my Name to be there, and I have chosen David to rule my people Israel.’
6:7	“My father David had it in his heart to build a temple for the Name of the LORD, the God of Israel.
6:8	But the LORD said to my father David, `Because it was in your heart to build a temple for my Name, you did well to have this in your heart.
6:9	Nevertheless, you are not the one to build the temple, but your son, who is your own flesh and blood — he is the one who will build the temple for my Name.’
6:10	“The LORD has kept the promise he made. I have succeeded David my father and now I sit on the throne of Israel, just as the LORD promised, and I have built the temple for the Name of the LORD, the God of Israel.
6:11	There I have placed the ark, in which is the covenant of the LORD that he made with the people of Israel.”
6:12	Then Solomon stood before the altar of the LORD in front of the whole assembly of Israel and spread out his hands.
6:13	Now he had made a bronze platform, five cubits [That is, about 7 1/2 feet (about 2.3 metres)] long, five cubits wide and three cubits [That is, about 4 1/2 feet (about 1.4 metres)] high, and had placed it in the centre of the outer court. He stood on the platform and then knelt down before the whole assembly of Israel and spread out his hands towards heaven.
6:14	He said: “O LORD, God of Israel, there is no God like you in heaven or on earth — you who keep your covenant of love with your servants who continue wholeheartedly in your way.
6:15	You have kept your promise to your servant David my father; with your mouth you have promised and with your hand you have fulfilled it — as it is today.
6:16	“Now LORD, God of Israel, keep for your servant David my father the promises you made to him when you said, `You shall never fail to have a man to sit before me on the throne of Israel, if only your sons are careful in all they do to walk before me according to my law, as you have done.’
6:17	And now, O LORD, God of Israel, let your word that you promised your servant David come true.
6:18	“But will God really dwell on earth with men? The heavens, even the highest heavens, cannot contain you. How much less this temple that I have built!
6:19	Yet give attention to your servant’s prayer and his plea for mercy, O LORD my God. Hear the cry and the prayer that your servant is praying in your presence.
6:20	May your eyes be open towards this temple day and night, this place of which you said you would put your Name there. May you hear the prayer your servant prays towards this place.
6:21	Hear the supplications of your servant and of your people Israel when they pray towards this place. Hear from heaven, your dwelling-place; and when you hear, forgive.
6:22	“When a man wrongs his neighbour and is required to take an oath and he comes and swears the oath before your altar in this temple,
6:23	then hear from heaven and act. Judge between your servants, repaying the guilty by bringing down on his own head what he has done. Declare the innocent not guilty and so establish his innocence.
6:24	“When your people Israel have been defeated by an enemy because they have sinned against you and when they turn back and confess your name, praying and making supplication before you in this temple,
6:25	then hear from heaven and forgive the sin of your people Israel and bring them back to the land you gave to them and their fathers.
6:26	“When the heavens are shut up and there is no rain because your people have sinned against you, and when they pray towards this place and confess your name and turn from their sin because you have afflicted them,
6:27	then hear from heaven and forgive the sin of your servants, your people Israel. Teach them the right way to live, and send rain on the land that you gave your people for an inheritance.
6:28	“When famine or plague comes to the land, or blight or mildew, locusts or grasshoppers, or when enemies besiege them in any of their cities, whatever disaster or disease may come,
6:29	and when a prayer or plea is made by any of your people Israel — each one aware of his afflictions and pains, and spreading out his hands towards this temple —
6:30	then hear from heaven, your dwelling-place. Forgive, and deal with each man according to all he does, since you know his heart (for you alone know the hearts of men),
6:31	so that they will fear you and walk in your ways all the time they live in the land that you gave our fathers.
6:32	“As for the foreigner who does not belong to your people Israel but has come from a distant land because of your great name and your mighty hand and your outstretched arm — when he comes and prays towards this temple,
6:33	then hear from heaven, your dwelling-place, and do whatever the foreigner asks of you, so that all the peoples of the earth may know your name and fear you, as do your own people Israel, and may know that this house that I have built bears your Name.
6:34	“When your people go to war against their enemies, wherever you send them, and when they pray to you towards this city you have chosen and the temple I have built for your Name,
6:35	then hear from heaven their prayer and their plea, and uphold their cause.
6:36	“When they sin against you — for there is no-one who does not sin — and you become angry with them and give them over to the enemy, who takes them captive to a land far away or near;
6:37	and if they have a change of heart in the land where they are held captive, and repent and plead with you in the land of their captivity and say, `We have sinned, we have done wrong and acted wickedly’;
6:38	and if they turn back to you with all their heart and soul in the land of their captivity where they were taken, and pray towards the land that you gave their fathers, towards the city you have chosen and towards the temple that I have built for your Name;
6:39	then from heaven, your dwelling-place, hear their prayer and their pleas, and uphold their cause. And forgive your people, who have sinned against you.
6:40	“Now, my God, may your eyes be open and your ears attentive to the prayers offered in this place.
6:41	“Now arise, O LORD God, and come to your resting place, you and the ark of your might. May your priests, O LORD God, be clothed with salvation, may your saints rejoice in your goodness.
6:42	LORD God, do not reject your anointed one. Remember the great love promised to David your servant.”
7:1	When Solomon finished praying, fire came down from heaven and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices, and the glory of the LORD filled the temple.
7:2	The priests could not enter the temple of the LORD because the glory of the LORD filled it.
7:3	When all the Israelites saw the fire coming down and the glory of the LORD above the temple, they knelt on the pavement with their faces to the ground, and they worshipped and gave thanks to the LORD, saying, “He is good; his love endures for ever.”
7:4	Then the king and all the people offered sacrifices before the LORD.
7:5	And King Solomon offered a sacrifice of twenty-two thousand head of cattle and a hundred and twenty thousand sheep and goats. So the king and all the people dedicated the temple of God.
7:6	The priests took their positions, as did the Levites with the LORD’s musical instruments, which King David had made for praising the LORD and which were used when he gave thanks, saying, “His love endures for ever.” Opposite the Levites, the priests blew their trumpets, and all the Israelites were standing.
7:7	Solomon consecrated the middle part of the courtyard in front of the temple of the LORD, and there he offered burnt offerings and the fat of the fellowship offerings, [Traditionally peace offerings] because the bronze altar he had made could not hold the burnt offerings, the grain offerings and the fat portions.
7:8	So Solomon observed the festival at that time for seven days, and all Israel with him — a vast assembly, people from Lebo [Or from the entrance to] Hamath to the Wadi of Egypt.
7:9	On the eighth day they held an assembly, for they had celebrated the dedication of the altar for seven days and the festival for seven days more.
7:10	On the twenty-third day of the seventh month he sent the people to their homes, joyful and glad in heart for the good things the LORD had done for David and Solomon and for his people Israel.
7:11	When Solomon had finished the temple of the LORD and the royal palace, and had succeeded in carrying out all he had in mind to do in the temple of the LORD and in his own palace,
7:12	the LORD appeared to him at night and said: “I have heard your prayer and have chosen this place for myself as a temple for sacrifices.
7:13	“When I shut up the heavens so that there is no rain, or command locusts to devour the land or send a plague among my people,
7:14	if my people, who are called by my name, will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their land.
7:15	Now my eyes will be open and my ears attentive to the prayers offered in this place.
7:16	I have chosen and consecrated this temple so that my Name may be there for ever. My eyes and my heart will always be there.
7:17	“As for you, if you walk before me as David your father did, and do all I command, and observe my decrees and laws,
7:18	I will establish your royal throne, as I covenanted with David your father when I said, `You shall never fail to have a man to rule over Israel.’
7:19	“But if you [The Hebrew is plural.] turn away and forsake the decrees and commands I have given you [The Hebrew is plural.] and go off to serve other gods and worship them,
7:20	then I will uproot Israel from my land, which I have given them, and will reject this temple which I have consecrated for my Name. I will make it a byword and an object of ridicule among all peoples.
7:21	And though this temple is now so imposing, all who pass by will be appalled and say, `Why has the LORD done such a thing to this land and to this temple?’
7:22	People will answer, `Because they have forsaken the LORD, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of Egypt, and have embraced other gods, worshipping and serving them — that is why he brought all this disaster on them.’“
8:1	At the end of twenty years, during which Solomon built the temple of the LORD and his own palace,
8:2	Solomon rebuilt the villages that Hiram [Hebrew Huram, a variant of Hiram; also in verse 18] had given him, and settled Israelites in them.
8:3	Solomon then went to Hamath Zobah and captured it.
8:4	He also built up Tadmor in the desert and all the store cities he had built in Hamath.
8:5	He rebuilt Upper Beth Horon and Lower Beth Horon as fortified cities, with walls and with gates and bars,
8:6	as well as Baalath and all his store cities, and all the cities for his chariots and for his horses — [Or charioteers] whatever he desired to build in Jerusalem, in Lebanon and throughout all the territory that he ruled.
8:7	All the people left from the Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites (these peoples were not Israelites),
8:8	that is, their descendants remaining in the land, whom the Israelites had not destroyed — these Solomon conscripted for his slave labour force, as it is to this day.
8:9	But Solomon did not make slaves of the Israelites for his work; they were his fighting men, commanders of his captains, and commanders of his chariots and charioteers.
8:10	They were also King Solomon’s chief officials — two hundred and fifty officials supervising the men.
8:11	Solomon brought Pharaoh’s daughter up from the City of David to the palace he had built for her, for he said, “My wife must not live in the palace of David king of Israel, because the places the ark of the LORD has entered are holy.”
8:12	On the altar of the LORD that he had built in front of the portico, Solomon sacrificed burnt offerings to the LORD,
8:13	according to the daily requirement for offerings commanded by Moses for Sabbaths, New Moons and the three annual feasts — the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the Feast of Weeks and the Feast of Tabernacles.
8:14	In keeping with the ordinance of his father David, he appointed the divisions of the priests for their duties and the Levites to lead the praise and to assist the priests according to each day’s requirement. He also appointed the gatekeepers by divisions for the various gates, because this was what David the man of God had ordered.
8:15	They did not deviate from the king’s commands to the priests or to the Levites in any matter, including that of the treasuries.
8:16	All Solomon’s work was carried out, from the day the foundation of the temple of the LORD was laid until its completion. So the temple of the LORD was finished.
8:17	Then Solomon went to Ezion Geber and Elath on the coast of Edom.
8:18	And Hiram sent him ships commanded by his own officers, men who knew the sea. These, with Solomon’s men, sailed to Ophir and brought back four hundred and fifty talents [That is, about 17 tons (about 16 metric tons)] of gold, which they delivered to King Solomon.
9:1	When the queen of Sheba heard of Solomon’s fame, she came to Jerusalem to test him with hard questions. Arriving with a very great caravan — with camels carrying spices, large quantities of gold, and precious stones — she came to Solomon and talked with him about all she had on her mind.
9:2	Solomon answered all her questions; nothing was too hard for him to explain to her.
9:3	When the queen of Sheba saw the wisdom of Solomon, as well as the palace he had built,
9:4	the food on his table, the seating of his officials, the attending servants in their robes, the cupbearers in their robes and the burnt offerings he made at [Or the ascent by which he went up to] the temple of the LORD, she was overwhelmed.
9:5	She said to the king, “The report I heard in my own country about your achievements and your wisdom is true.
9:6	But I did not believe what they said until I came and saw with my own eyes. Indeed, not even half the greatness of your wisdom was told me; you have far exceeded the report I heard.
9:7	How happy your men must be! How happy your officials, who continually stand before you and hear your wisdom!
9:8	Praise be to the LORD your God, who has delighted in you and placed you on his throne as king to rule for the LORD your God. Because of the love of your God for Israel and his desire to uphold them for ever, he has made you king over them, to maintain justice and righteousness.”
9:9	Then she gave the king 120 talents [That is, about 4 tons (about 4 metric tons)] of gold, large quantities of spices, and precious stones. There had never been such spices as those the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon.
9:10	(The men of Hiram and the men of Solomon brought gold from Ophir; they also brought algum-wood [Probably a variant of almug-wood] and precious stones.
9:11	The king used the algum-wood to make steps for the temple of the LORD and for the royal palace, and to make harps and lyres for the musicians. Nothing like them had ever been seen in Judah.)
9:12	King Solomon gave the queen of Sheba all she desired and asked for; he gave her more than she had brought to him. Then she left and returned with her retinue to her own country.
9:13	The weight of the gold that Solomon received yearly was 666 talents, [That is, about 23 tons (about 23 metric tons)]
9:14	not including the revenues brought in by merchants and traders. Also all the kings of Arabia and the governors of the land brought gold and silver to Solomon.
9:15	King Solomon made two hundred large shields of hammered gold; six hundred bekas [That is, about 7 1/2 pounds (about 3.5 kilograms)] of hammered gold went into each shield.
9:16	He also made three hundred small shields of hammered gold, with three hundred bekas [That is, about 3 3/4 pounds (about 1.7 kilograms)] of gold in each shield. The king put them in the Palace of the Forest of Lebanon.
9:17	Then the king made a great throne inlaid with ivory and overlaid with pure gold.
9:18	The throne had six steps, and a footstool of gold was attached to it. On both sides of the seat were armrests, with a lion standing beside each of them.
9:19	Twelve lions stood on the six steps, one at either end of each step. Nothing like it had ever been made for any other kingdom.
9:20	All King Solomon’s goblets were gold, and all the household articles in the Palace of the Forest of Lebanon were pure gold. Nothing was made of silver, because silver was considered of little value in Solomon’s day.
9:21	The king had a fleet of trading ships [Hebrew of ships that could go to Tarshish] manned by Hiram’s [Hebrew Huram, a variant of Hiram] men. Once every three years it returned, carrying gold, silver and ivory, and apes and baboons.
9:22	King Solomon was greater in riches and wisdom than all the other kings of the earth.
9:23	All the kings of the earth sought audience with Solomon to hear the wisdom God had put in his heart.
9:24	Year after year, everyone who came brought a gift — articles of silver and gold, and robes, weapons and spices, and horses and mules.
9:25	Solomon had four thousand stalls for horses and chariots, and twelve thousand horses, [Or charioteers] which he kept in the chariot cities and also with him in Jerusalem.
9:26	He ruled over all the kings from the River [That is, the Euphrates] to the land of the Philistines, as far as the border of Egypt.
9:27	The king made silver as common in Jerusalem as stones, and cedar as plentiful as sycamore-fig trees in the foothills.
9:28	Solomon’s horses were imported from Egypt [Or possibly Muzur, a region in Cilicia] and from all other countries.
9:29	As for the other events of Solomon’s reign, from beginning to end, are they not written in the records of Nathan the prophet, in the prophecy of Ahijah the Shilonite and in the visions of Iddo the seer concerning Jeroboam son of Nebat?
9:30	Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel for forty years.
9:31	Then he rested with his fathers and was buried in the city of David his father. And Rehoboam his son succeeded him as king.
10:1	Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all the Israelites had gone there to make him king.
10:2	When Jeroboam son of Nebat heard this (he was in Egypt, where he had fled from King Solomon), he returned from Egypt.
10:3	So they sent for Jeroboam, and he and all Israel went to Rehoboam and said to him:
10:4	“Your father put a heavy yoke on us, but now lighten the harsh labour and the heavy yoke he put on us, and we will serve you.”
10:5	Rehoboam answered, “Come back to me in three days.” So the people went away.
10:6	Then King Rehoboam consulted the elders who had served his father Solomon during his lifetime. “How would you advise me to answer these people?” he asked.
10:7	They replied, “If you will be kind to these people and please them and give them a favourable answer, they will always be your servants.”
10:8	But Rehoboam rejected the advice the elders gave him and consulted the young men who had grown up with him and were serving him.
10:9	He asked them, “What is your advice? How should we answer these people who say to me, `Lighten the yoke your father put on us’?”
10:10	The young men who had grown up with him replied, “Tell the people who have said to you, `Your father put a heavy yoke on us, but make our yoke lighter’ — tell them, `My little finger is thicker than my father’s waist.
10:11	My father laid on you a heavy yoke; I will make it even heavier. My father scourged you with whips; I will scourge you with scorpions.’“
10:12	Three days later Jeroboam and all the people returned to Rehoboam, as the king had said, “Come back to me in three days.”
10:13	The king answered them harshly. Rejecting the advice of the elders,
10:14	he followed the advice of the young men and said, “My father made your yoke heavy; I will make it even heavier. My father scourged you with whips; I will scourge you with scorpions.”
10:15	So the king did not listen to the people, for this turn of events was from God, to fulfil the word that the LORD had spoken to Jeroboam son of Nebat through Ahijah the Shilonite.
10:16	When all Israel saw that the king refused to listen to them, they answered the king: “What share do we have in David, what part in Jesse’s son? To your tents, O Israel! Look after your own house, O David!” So all the Israelites went home.
10:17	But as for the Israelites who were living in the towns of Judah, Rehoboam still ruled over them.
10:18	King Rehoboam sent out Adoniram, [Hebrew Hadoram, a variant of Adoniram] who was in charge of forced labour, but the Israelites stoned him to death. King Rehoboam, however, managed to get into his chariot and escape to Jerusalem.
10:19	So Israel has been in rebellion against the house of David to this day.
11:1	When Rehoboam arrived in Jerusalem, he mustered the house of Judah and Benjamin — a hundred and eighty thousand fighting men — to make war against Israel and to regain the kingdom for Rehoboam.
11:2	But this word of the LORD came to Shemaiah the man of God:
11:3	“Say to Rehoboam son of Solomon king of Judah and to all the Israelites in Judah and Benjamin,
11:4	`This is what the LORD says: Do not go up to fight against your brothers. Go home, every one of you, for this is my doing.’“ So they obeyed the words of the LORD and turned back from marching against Jeroboam.
11:5	Rehoboam lived in Jerusalem and built up towns for defence in Judah:
11:6	Bethlehem, Etam, Tekoa,
11:7	Beth Zur, Soco, Adullam,
11:8	Gath, Mareshah, Ziph,
11:9	Adoraim, Lachish, Azekah,
11:10	Zorah, Aijalon and Hebron. These were fortified cities in Judah and Benjamin.
11:11	He strengthened their defences and put commanders in them, with supplies of food, olive oil and wine.
11:12	He put shields and spears in all the cities, and made them very strong. So Judah and Benjamin were his.
11:13	The priests and Levites from all their districts throughout Israel sided with him.
11:14	The Levites even abandoned their pasture-lands and property, and came to Judah and Jerusalem because Jeroboam and his sons had rejected them as priests of the LORD.
11:15	And he appointed his own priests for the high places and for the goat and calf idols he had made.
11:16	Those from every tribe of Israel who set their hearts on seeking the LORD, the God of Israel, followed the Levites to Jerusalem to offer sacrifices to the LORD, the God of their fathers.
11:17	They strengthened the kingdom of Judah and supported Rehoboam son of Solomon for three years, walking in the ways of David and Solomon during this time.
11:18	Rehoboam married Mahalath, who was the daughter of David’s son Jerimoth and of Abihail, the daughter of Jesse’s son Eliab.
11:19	She bore him sons: Jeush, Shemariah and Zaham.
11:20	Then he married Maacah daughter of Absalom, who bore him Abijah, Attai, Ziza and Shelomith.
11:21	Rehoboam loved Maacah daughter of Absalom more than any of his other wives and concubines. In all he had eighteen wives and sixty concubines, twenty-eight sons and sixty daughters.
11:22	Rehoboam appointed Abijah son of Maacah to be the chief prince among his brothers, in order to make him king.
11:23	He acted wisely, dispersing some of his sons throughout the districts of Judah and Benjamin, and to all the fortified cities. He gave them abundant provisions and took many wives for them.
12:1	After Rehoboam’s position as king was established and he had become strong, he and all Israel [That is, Judah, as frequently in 2 Chronicles] with him abandoned the law of the LORD.
12:2	Because they had been unfaithful to the LORD, Shishak king of Egypt attacked Jerusalem in the fifth year of King Rehoboam.
12:3	With twelve hundred chariots and sixty thousand horsemen and the innumerable troops of Libyans, Sukkites and Cushites [That is, people from the upper Nile region] that came with him from Egypt,
12:4	he captured the fortified cities of Judah and came as far as Jerusalem.
12:5	Then the prophet Shemaiah came to Rehoboam and to the leaders of Judah who had assembled in Jerusalem for fear of Shishak, and he said to them, “This is what the LORD says: `You have abandoned me; therefore I now abandon you to Shishak.’“
12:6	The leaders of Israel and the king humbled themselves and said, “The LORD is just.”
12:7	When the LORD saw that they humbled themselves, this word of the LORD came to Shemaiah: “Since they have humbled themselves, I will not destroy them but will soon give them deliverance. My wrath will not be poured out on Jerusalem through Shishak.
12:8	They will, however, become subject to him, so that they may learn the difference between serving me and serving the kings of other lands.”
12:9	When Shishak king of Egypt attacked Jerusalem, he carried off the treasures of the temple of the LORD and the treasures of the royal palace. He took everything, including the gold shields that Solomon had made.
12:10	So King Rehoboam made bronze shields to replace them and assigned these to the commanders of the guard on duty at the entrance to the royal palace.
12:11	Whenever the king went to the LORD’s temple, the guards went with him, bearing the shields, and afterwards they returned them to the guardroom.
12:12	Because Rehoboam humbled himself, the LORD’s anger turned from him, and he was not totally destroyed. Indeed, there was some good in Judah.
12:13	King Rehoboam established himself firmly in Jerusalem and continued as king. He was forty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned for seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city the LORD had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel in which to put his Name. His mother’s name was Naamah; she was an Ammonite.
12:14	He did evil because he had not set his heart on seeking the LORD.
12:15	As for the events of Rehoboam’s reign, from beginning to end, are they not written in the records of Shemaiah the prophet and of Iddo the seer that deal with genealogies? There was continual warfare between Rehoboam and Jeroboam.
12:16	Rehoboam rested with his fathers and was buried in the City of David. And Abijah his son succeeded him as king.
13:1	In the eighteenth year of the reign of Jeroboam, Abijah became king of Judah,
13:2	and he reigned in Jerusalem for three years. His mother’s name was Maacah, [Most Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac (see also 2 Chron. 11:20 and 1 Kings 15:2); Hebrew Micaiah] a daughter [Or granddaughter] of Uriel of Gibeah. There was war between Abijah and Jeroboam.
13:3	Abijah went into battle with a force of four hundred thousand able fighting men, and Jeroboam drew up a battle line against him with eight hundred thousand able troops.
13:4	Abijah stood on Mount Zemaraim, in the hill country of Ephraim, and said, “Jeroboam and all Israel, listen to me!
13:5	Don’t you know that the LORD, the God of Israel, has given the kingship of Israel to David and his descendants for ever by a covenant of salt?
13:6	Yet Jeroboam son of Nebat, an official of Solomon son of David, rebelled against his master.
13:7	Some worthless scoundrels gathered around him and opposed Rehoboam son of Solomon when he was young and indecisive and not strong enough to resist them.
13:8	“And now you plan to resist the kingdom of the LORD, which is in the hands of David’s descendants. You are indeed a vast army and have with you the golden calves that Jeroboam made to be your gods.
13:9	But didn’t you drive out the priests of the LORD, the sons of Aaron, and the Levites, and make priests of your own as the peoples of other lands do? Whoever comes to consecrate himself with a young bull and seven rams may become a priest of what are not gods.
13:10	“As for us, the LORD is our God, and we have not forsaken him. The priests who serve the LORD are sons of Aaron, and the Levites assist them.
13:11	Every morning and evening they present burnt offerings and fragrant incense to the LORD. They set out the bread on the ceremonially clean table and light the lamps on the gold lampstand every evening. We are observing the requirements of the LORD our God. But you have forsaken him.
13:12	God is with us; he is our leader. His priests with their trumpets will sound the battle cry against you. Men of Israel, do not fight against the LORD, the God of your fathers, for you will not succeed.”
13:13	Now Jeroboam had sent troops round to the rear, so that while he was in front of Judah the ambush was behind them.
13:14	Judah turned and saw that they were being attacked at both front and rear. Then they cried out to the LORD. The priests blew their trumpets
13:15	and the men of Judah raised the battle cry. At the sound of their battle cry, God routed Jeroboam and all Israel before Abijah and Judah.
13:16	The Israelites fled before Judah, and God delivered them into their hands.
13:17	Abijah and his men inflicted heavy losses on them, so that there were five hundred thousand casualties among Israel’s able men.
13:18	The men of Israel were subdued on that occasion, and the men of Judah were victorious because they relied on the LORD, the God of their fathers.
13:19	Abijah pursued Jeroboam and took from him the towns of Bethel, Jeshanah and Ephron, with their surrounding villages.
13:20	Jeroboam did not regain power during the time of Abijah. And the LORD struck him down and he died.
13:21	But Abijah grew in strength. He married fourteen wives and had twenty-two sons and sixteen daughters.
13:22	The other events of Abijah’s reign, what he did and what he said, are written in the annotations of the prophet Iddo.
14:1	And Abijah rested with his fathers and was buried in the City of David. Asa his son succeeded him as king, and in his days the country was at peace for ten years.
14:2	Asa did what was good and right in the eyes of the LORD his God.
14:3	He removed the foreign altars and the high places, smashed the sacred stones and cut down the Asherah poles. [That is, symbols of the goddess Asherah; here and elsewhere in 2 Chronicles]
14:4	He commanded Judah to seek the LORD, the God of their fathers, and to obey his laws and commands.
14:5	He removed the high places and incense altars in every town in Judah, and the kingdom was at peace under him.
14:6	He built up the fortified cities of Judah, since the land was at peace. No-one was at war with him during those years, for the LORD gave him rest.
14:7	“Let us build up these towns,” he said to Judah, “and put walls round them, with towers, gates and bars. The land is still ours, because we have sought the LORD our God; we sought him and he has given us rest on every side.” So they built and prospered.
14:8	Asa had an army of three hundred thousand men from Judah, equipped with large shields and with spears, and two hundred and eighty thousand from Benjamin, armed with small shields and with bows. All these were brave fighting men.
14:9	Zerah the Cushite marched out against them with a vast army [Hebrew with an army of a thousand thousands or with an army of thousands upon thousands] and three hundred chariots, and came as far as Mareshah.
14:10	Asa went out to meet him, and they took up battle positions in the Valley of Zephathah near Mareshah.
14:11	Then Asa called to the LORD his God and said, “LORD, there is no-one like you to help the powerless against the mighty. Help us, O LORD our God, for we rely on you, and in your name we have come against this vast army. O LORD, you are our God; do not let man prevail against you.”
14:12	The LORD struck down the Cushites before Asa and Judah. The Cushites fled,
14:13	and Asa and his army pursued them as far as Gerar. Such a great number of Cushites fell that they could not recover; they were crushed before the LORD and his forces. The men of Judah carried off a large amount of plunder.
14:14	They destroyed all the villages around Gerar, for the terror of the LORD had fallen upon them. They plundered all these villages, since there was much booty there.
14:15	They also attacked the camps of the herdsmen and carried off droves of sheep and goats and camels. Then they returned to Jerusalem.
15:1	The Spirit of God came upon Azariah son of Oded.
15:2	He went out to meet Asa and said to him, “Listen to me, Asa and all Judah and Benjamin. The LORD is with you when you are with him. If you seek him, he will be found by you, but if you forsake him, he will forsake you.
15:3	For a long time Israel was without the true God, without a priest to teach and without the law.
15:4	But in their distress they turned to the LORD, the God of Israel, and sought him, and he was found by them.
15:5	In those days it was not safe to travel about, for all the inhabitants of the lands were in great turmoil.
15:6	One nation was being crushed by another and one city by another, because God was troubling them with every kind of distress.
15:7	But as for you, be strong and do not give up, for your work will be rewarded.”
15:8	When Asa heard these words and the prophecy of Azariah son of [Vulgate and Syriac (see also Septuagint and verse 1); Hebrew does not have Azariah son of.] Oded the prophet, he took courage. He removed the detestable idols from the whole land of Judah and Benjamin and from the towns he had captured in the hills of Ephraim. He repaired the altar of the LORD that was in front of the portico of the LORD’s temple.
15:9	Then he assembled all Judah and Benjamin and the people from Ephraim, Manasseh and Simeon who had settled among them, for large numbers had come over to him from Israel when they saw that the LORD his God was with him.
15:10	They assembled at Jerusalem in the third month of the fifteenth year of Asa’s reign.
15:11	At that time they sacrificed to the LORD seven hundred head of cattle and seven thousand sheep and goats from the plunder they had brought back.
15:12	They entered into a covenant to seek the LORD, the God of their fathers, with all their heart and soul.
15:13	All who would not seek the LORD, the God of Israel, were to be put to death, whether small or great, man or woman.
15:14	They took an oath to the LORD with loud acclamation, with shouting and with trumpets and horns.
15:15	All Judah rejoiced about the oath because they had sworn it wholeheartedly. They sought God eagerly, and he was found by them. So the LORD gave them rest on every side.
15:16	King Asa also deposed his grandmother Maacah from her position as queen mother, because she had made a repulsive Asherah pole. Asa cut the pole down, broke it up and burned it in the Kidron Valley.
15:17	Although he did not remove the high places from Israel, Asa’s heart was fully committed to the LORD all his life.
15:18	He brought into the temple of God the silver and gold and the articles that he and his father had dedicated.
15:19	There was no more war until the thirty-fifth year of Asa’s reign.
16:1	In the thirty-sixth year of Asa’s reign Baasha king of Israel went up against Judah and fortified Ramah to prevent anyone from leaving or entering the territory of Asa king of Judah.
16:2	Asa then took the silver and gold out of the treasuries of the LORD’s temple and of his own palace and sent it to Ben-Hadad king of Aram, who was ruling in Damascus.
16:3	“Let there be a treaty between me and you,” he said, “as there was between my father and your father. See, I am sending you silver and gold. Now break your treaty with Baasha king of Israel so that he will withdraw from me.”
16:4	Ben-Hadad agreed with King Asa and sent the commanders of his forces against the towns of Israel. They conquered Ijon, Dan, Abel Maim [Also known as Abel Beth Maacah] and all the store cities of Naphtali.
16:5	When Baasha heard this, he stopped building Ramah and abandoned his work.
16:6	Then King Asa brought all the men of Judah, and they carried away from Ramah the stones and timber Baasha had been using. With them he built up Geba and Mizpah.
16:7	At that time Hanani the seer came to Asa king of Judah and said to him: “Because you relied on the king of Aram and not on the LORD your God, the army of the king of Aram has escaped from your hand.
16:8	Were not the Cushites [That is, people from the upper Nile region] and Libyans a mighty army with great numbers of chariots and horsemen? [Or charioteers] Yet when you relied on the LORD, he delivered them into your hand.
16:9	For the eyes of the LORD range throughout the earth to strengthen those whose hearts are fully committed to him. You have done a foolish thing, and from now on you will be at war.”
16:10	Asa was angry with the seer because of this; he was so enraged that he put him in prison. At the same time Asa brutally oppressed some of the people.
16:11	The events of Asa’s reign, from beginning to end, are written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.
16:12	In the thirty-ninth year of his reign Asa was afflicted with a disease in his feet. Though his disease was severe, even in his illness he did not seek help from the LORD, but only from the physicians.
16:13	Then in the forty-first year of his reign Asa died and rested with his fathers.
16:14	They buried him in the tomb that he had cut out for himself in the City of David. They laid him on a bier covered with spices and various blended perfumes, and they made a huge fire in his honour.
17:1	Jehoshaphat his son succeeded him as king and strengthened himself against Israel.
17:2	He stationed troops in all the fortified cities of Judah and put garrisons in Judah and in the towns of Ephraim that his father Asa had captured.
17:3	The LORD was with Jehoshaphat because in his early years he walked in the ways that his father David had followed. He did not consult the Baals
17:4	but sought the God of his father and followed his commands rather than the practices of Israel.
17:5	The LORD established the kingdom under his control; and all Judah brought gifts to Jehoshaphat, so that he had great wealth and honour.
17:6	His heart was devoted to the ways of the LORD; furthermore, he removed the high places and the Asherah poles from Judah.
17:7	In the third year of his reign he sent his officials Ben-Hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel and Micaiah to teach in the towns of Judah.
17:8	With them were certain Levites — Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah, Asahel, Shemiramoth, Jehonathan, Adonijah, Tobijah and Tob-Adonijah — and the priests Elishama and Jehoram.
17:9	They taught throughout Judah, taking with them the Book of the Law of the LORD; they went round to all the towns of Judah and taught the people.
17:10	The fear of the LORD fell on all the kingdoms of the lands surrounding Judah, so that they did not make war with Jehoshaphat.
17:11	Some Philistines brought Jehoshaphat gifts and silver as tribute, and the Arabs brought him flocks: seven thousand seven hundred rams and seven thousand seven hundred goats.
17:12	Jehoshaphat became more and more powerful; he built forts and store cities in Judah
17:13	and had large supplies in the towns of Judah. He also kept experienced fighting men in Jerusalem.
17:14	Their enrolment by families was as follows: From Judah, commanders of units of 1,000: Adnah the commander, with 300,000 fighting men;
17:15	next, Jehohanan the commander, with 280,000;
17:16	next, Amasiah son of Zicri, who volunteered himself for the service of the LORD, with 200,000.
17:17	From Benjamin: Eliada, a valiant soldier, with 200,000 men armed with bows and shields;
17:18	next, Jehozabad, with 180,000 men armed for battle.
17:19	These were the men who served the king, besides those he stationed in the fortified cities throughout Judah.
18:1	Now Jehoshaphat had great wealth and honour, and he allied himself with Ahab by marriage.
18:2	Some years later he went down to visit Ahab in Samaria. Ahab slaughtered many sheep and cattle for him and the people with him and urged him to attack Ramoth Gilead.
18:3	Ahab king of Israel asked Jehoshaphat king of Judah, “Will you go with me against Ramoth Gilead?” Jehoshaphat replied, “I am as you are, and my people as your people; we will join you in the war.”
18:4	But Jehoshaphat also said to the king of Israel, “First seek the counsel of the LORD.”
18:5	So the king of Israel brought together the prophets — four hundred men — and asked them, “Shall we go to war against Ramoth Gilead, or shall I refrain?” “Go,” they answered, “for God will give it into the king’s hand.”
18:6	But Jehoshaphat asked, “Is there not a prophet of the LORD here whom we can enquire of?”
18:7	The king of Israel answered Jehoshaphat, “There is still one man through whom we can enquire of the LORD, but I hate him because he never prophesies anything good about me, but always bad. He is Micaiah son of Imlah.” “The king should not say that,” Jehoshaphat replied.
18:8	So the king of Israel called one of his officials and said, “Bring Micaiah son of Imlah at once.”
18:9	Dressed in their royal robes, the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah were sitting on their thrones at the threshing-floor by the entrance to the gate of Samaria, with all the prophets prophesying before them.
18:10	Now Zedekiah son of Kenaanah had made iron horns, and he declared, “This is what the LORD says: `With these you will gore the Arameans until they are destroyed.’“
18:11	All the other prophets were prophesying the same thing. “Attack Ramoth Gilead and be victorious,” they said, “for the LORD will give it into the king’s hand.”
18:12	The messenger who had gone to summon Micaiah said to him, “Look, as one man the other prophets are predicting success for the king. Let your word agree with theirs, and speak favourably.”
18:13	But Micaiah said, “As surely as the LORD lives, I can tell him only what my God says.”
18:14	When he arrived, the king asked him, “Micaiah, shall we go to war against Ramoth Gilead, or shall I refrain?” “Attack and be victorious,” he answered, “for they will be given into your hand.”
18:15	The king said to him, “How many times must I make you swear to tell me nothing but the truth in the name of the LORD?”
18:16	Then Micaiah answered, “I saw all Israel scattered on the hills like sheep without a shepherd, and the LORD said, `These people have no master. Let each one go home in peace.’“
18:17	The king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “Didn’t I tell you that he never prophesies anything good about me, but only bad?”
18:18	Micaiah continued, “Therefore hear the word of the LORD: I saw the LORD sitting on his throne with all the host of heaven standing on his right and on his left.
18:19	And the LORD said, `Who will entice Ahab king of Israel into attacking Ramoth Gilead and going to his death there?’ “One suggested this, and another that.
18:20	Finally, a spirit came forward, stood before the LORD and said, `I will entice him.’ “`By what means?’ the LORD asked.
18:21	“`I will go and be a lying spirit in the mouths of all his prophets,’ he said. “`You will succeed in enticing him,’ said the LORD. `Go and do it.’
18:22	“So now the LORD has put a lying spirit in the mouths of these prophets of yours. The LORD has decreed disaster for you.”
18:23	Then Zedekiah son of Kenaanah went up and slapped Micaiah in the face. “Which way did the spirit from [Or Spirit of] the LORD go when he went from me to speak to you?” he asked.
18:24	Micaiah replied, “You will find out on the day you go to hide in an inner room.”
18:25	The king of Israel then ordered, “Take Micaiah and send him back to Amon the ruler of the city and to Joash the king’s son,
18:26	and say, `This is what the king says: Put this fellow in prison and give him nothing but bread and water until I return safely.’“
18:27	Micaiah declared, “If you ever return safely, the LORD has not spoken through me.” Then he added, “Mark my words, all you people!”
18:28	So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah went up to Ramoth Gilead.
18:29	The king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “I will enter the battle in disguise, but you wear your royal robes.” So the king of Israel disguised himself and went into battle.
18:30	Now the king of Aram had ordered his chariot commanders, “Do not fight with anyone, small or great, except the king of Israel.”
18:31	When the chariot commanders saw Jehoshaphat, they thought, “This is the king of Israel.” So they turned to attack him, but Jehoshaphat cried out, and the LORD helped him. God drew them away from him,
18:32	for when the chariot commanders saw that he was not the king of Israel, they stopped pursuing him.
18:33	But someone drew his bow at random and hit the king of Israel between the sections of his armour. The king told the chariot driver, “Wheel around and get me out of the fighting. I’ve been wounded.”
18:34	All day long the battle raged, and the king of Israel propped himself up in his chariot facing the Arameans until evening. Then at sunset he died.
19:1	When Jehoshaphat king of Judah returned safely to his palace in Jerusalem,
19:2	Jehu the seer, the son of Hanani, went out to meet him and said to the king, “Should you help the wicked and love [Or and make alliances with] those who hate the LORD? Because of this, the wrath of the LORD is upon you.
19:3	There is, however, some good in you, for you have rid the land of the Asherah poles and have set your heart on seeking God.”
19:4	Jehoshaphat lived in Jerusalem, and he went out again among the people from Beersheba to the hill country of Ephraim and turned them back to the LORD, the God of their fathers.
19:5	He appointed judges in the land, in each of the fortified cities of Judah.
19:6	He told them, “Consider carefully what you do, because you are not judging for man but for the LORD, who is with you whenever you give a verdict.
19:7	Now let the fear of the LORD be upon you. Judge carefully, for with the LORD our God there is no injustice or partiality or bribery.”
19:8	In Jerusalem also, Jehoshaphat appointed some of the Levites, priests and heads of Israelite families to administer the law of the LORD and to settle disputes. And they lived in Jerusalem.
19:9	He gave them these orders: “You must serve faithfully and wholeheartedly in the fear of the LORD.
19:10	In every case that comes before you from your fellow countrymen who live in the cities — whether bloodshed or other concerns of the law, commands, decrees or ordinances — you are to warn them not to sin against the LORD; otherwise his wrath will come on you and your brothers. Do this, and you will not sin.
19:11	“Amariah the chief priest will be over you in any matter concerning the LORD, and Zebadiah son of Ishmael, the leader of the tribe of Judah, will be over you in any matter concerning the king, and the Levites will serve as officials before you. Act with courage, and may the LORD be with those who do well.”
20:1	After this, the Moabites and Ammonites with some of the Meunites [Some Septuagint manuscripts; Hebrew Ammonites] came to make war on Jehoshaphat.
20:2	Some men came and told Jehoshaphat, “A vast army is coming against you from Edom, [One Hebrew manuscript; most Hebrew manuscripts, Septuagint and Vulgate Aram] from the other side of the Sea. [That is, the Dead Sea] It is already in Hazezon Tamar” (that is, En Gedi).
20:3	Alarmed, Jehoshaphat resolved to enquire of the LORD, and he proclaimed a fast for all Judah.
20:4	The people of Judah came together to seek help from the LORD; indeed, they came from every town in Judah to seek him.
20:5	Then Jehoshaphat stood up in the assembly of Judah and Jerusalem at the temple of the LORD in the front of the new courtyard
20:6	and said: “O LORD, God of our fathers, are you not the God who is in heaven? You rule over all the kingdoms of the nations. Power and might are in your hand, and no-one can withstand you.
20:7	our God, did you not drive out the inhabitants of this land before your people Israel and give it for ever to the descendants of Abraham your friend?
20:8	They have lived in it and have built in it a sanctuary for your Name, saying,
20:9	`If calamity comes upon us, whether the sword of judgment, or plague or famine, we will stand in your presence before this temple that bears your Name and will cry out to you in our distress, and you will hear us and save us.’
20:10	“But now here are men from Ammon, Moab and Mount Seir, whose territory you would not allow Israel to invade when they came from Egypt; so they turned away from them and did not destroy them.
20:11	See how they are repaying us by coming to drive us out of the possession you gave us as an inheritance.
20:12	our God, will you not judge them? For we have no power to face this vast army that is attacking us. We do not know what to do, but our eyes are upon you.”
20:13	All the men of Judah, with their wives and children and little ones, stood there before the LORD.
20:14	Then the Spirit of the LORD came upon Jahaziel son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, a Levite and descendant of Asaph, as he stood in the assembly.
20:15	He said: “Listen, King Jehoshaphat and all who live in Judah and Jerusalem! This is what the LORD says to you: `Do not be afraid or discouraged because of this vast army. For the battle is not yours, but God’s.
20:16	Tomorrow march down against them. They will be climbing up by the Pass of Ziz, and you will find them at the end of the gorge in the Desert of Jeruel.
20:17	You will not have to fight this battle. Take up your positions; stand firm and see the deliverance the LORD will give you, O Judah and Jerusalem. Do not be afraid; do not be discouraged. Go out to face them tomorrow, and the LORD will be with you.’“
20:18	Jehoshaphat bowed with his face to the ground, and all the people of Judah and Jerusalem fell down in worship before the LORD.
20:19	Then some Levites from the Kohathites and Korahites stood up and praised the LORD, the God of Israel, with a very loud voice.
20:20	Early in the morning they left for the Desert of Tekoa. As they set out, Jehoshaphat stood and said, “Listen to me, Judah and people of Jerusalem! Have faith in the LORD your God and you will be upheld; have faith in his prophets and you will be successful.”
20:21	After consulting the people, Jehoshaphat appointed men to sing to the LORD and to praise him for the splendour of his [Or him with the splendour of] holiness as they went out at the head of the army, saying: “Give thanks to the LORD, for his love endures for ever.”
20:22	As they began to sing and praise, the LORD set ambushes against the men of Ammon and Moab and Mount Seir who were invading Judah, and they were defeated.
20:23	The men of Ammon and Moab rose up against the men from Mount Seir to destroy and annihilate them. After they finished slaughtering the men from Seir, they helped to destroy one another.
20:24	When the men of Judah came to the place that overlooks the desert and looked towards the vast army, they saw only dead bodies lying on the ground; no-one had escaped.
20:25	So Jehoshaphat and his men went to carry off their plunder, and they found among them a great amount of equipment and clothing [Some Hebrew manuscripts and Vulgate; most Hebrew manuscripts corpses] and also articles of value — more than they could take away. There was so much plunder that it took three days to collect it.
20:26	On the fourth day they assembled in the Valley of Beracah, where they praised the LORD. This is why it is called the Valley of Beracah [Beracah means praise.] to this day.
20:27	Then, led by Jehoshaphat, all the men of Judah and Jerusalem returned joyfully to Jerusalem, for the LORD had given them cause to rejoice over their enemies.
20:28	They entered Jerusalem and went to the temple of the LORD with harps and lutes and trumpets.
20:29	The fear of God came upon all the kingdoms of the countries when they heard how the LORD had fought against the enemies of Israel.
20:30	And the kingdom of Jehoshaphat was at peace, for his God had given him rest on every side.
20:31	So Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah. He was thirty-five years old when he became king of Judah, and he reigned in Jerusalem for twenty-five years. His mother’s name was Azubah daughter of Shilhi.
20:32	He walked in the ways of his father Asa and did not stray from them; he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD.
20:33	The high places, however, were not removed, and the people still had not set their hearts on the God of their fathers.
20:34	The other events of Jehoshaphat’s reign, from beginning to end, are written in the annals of Jehu son of Hanani, which are recorded in the book of the kings of Israel.
20:35	Later, Jehoshaphat king of Judah made an alliance with Ahaziah king of Israel, who was guilty of wickedness.
20:36	He agreed with him to construct a fleet of trading ships. [Hebrew of ships that could go to Tarshish] After these were built at Ezion Geber,
20:37	Eliezer son of Dodavahu of Mareshah prophesied against Jehoshaphat, saying, “Because you have made an alliance with Ahaziah, the LORD will destroy what you have made.” The ships were wrecked and were not able to set sail to trade. [Hebrew sail for Tarshish]
21:1	Then Jehoshaphat rested with his fathers and was buried with them in the City of David. And Jehoram his son succeeded him as king.
21:2	Jehoram’s brothers, the sons of Jehoshaphat, were Azariah, Jehiel, Zechariah, Azariahu, Michael and Shephatiah. All these were sons of Jehoshaphat king of Israel. [That is, Judah, as frequently in 2 Chronicles]
21:3	Their father had given them many gifts of silver and gold and articles of value, as well as fortified cities in Judah, but he had given the kingdom to Jehoram because he was his firstborn son.
21:4	When Jehoram established himself firmly over his father’s kingdom, he put all his brothers to the sword along with some of the princes of Israel.
21:5	Jehoram was thirty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for eight years.
21:6	He walked in the ways of the kings of Israel, as the house of Ahab had done, for he married a daughter of Ahab. He did evil in the eyes of the LORD.
21:7	Nevertheless, because of the covenant the LORD had made with David, the LORD was not willing to destroy the house of David. He had promised to maintain a lamp for him and his descendants for ever.
21:8	In the time of Jehoram, Edom rebelled against Judah and set up its own king.
21:9	So Jehoram went there with his officers and all his chariots. The Edomites surrounded him and his chariot commanders, but he rose up and broke through by night.
21:10	To this day Edom has been in rebellion against Judah. Libnah revolted at the same time, because Jehoram had forsaken the LORD, the God of his fathers.
21:11	He had also built high places on the hills of Judah and had caused the people of Jerusalem to prostitute themselves and had led Judah astray.
21:12	Jehoram received a letter from Elijah the prophet, which said: “This is what the LORD, the God of your father David, says: `You have not walked in the ways of your father Jehoshaphat or of Asa king of Judah.
21:13	But you have walked in the ways of the kings of Israel, and you have led Judah and the people of Jerusalem to prostitute themselves, just as the house of Ahab did. You have also murdered your own brothers, members of your father’s house, men who were better than you.
21:14	So now the LORD is about to strike your people, your sons, your wives and everything that is yours, with a heavy blow.
21:15	You yourself will be very ill with a lingering disease of the bowels, until the disease causes your bowels to come out.’“
21:16	The LORD aroused against Jehoram the hostility of the Philistines and of the Arabs who lived near the Cushites.
21:17	They attacked Judah, invaded it and carried off all the goods found in the king’s palace, together with his sons and wives. Not a son was left to him except Ahaziah, [Hebrew Jehoahaz, a variant of Ahaziah] the youngest.
21:18	After all this, the LORD afflicted Jehoram with an incurable disease of the bowels.
21:19	In the course of time, at the end of the second year, his bowels came out because of the disease, and he died in great pain. His people made no fire in his honour, as they had for his fathers.
21:20	Jehoram was thirty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for eight years. He passed away, to no-one’s regret, and was buried in the City of David, but not in the tombs of the kings.
22:1	The people of Jerusalem made Ahaziah, Jehoram’s youngest son, king in his place, since the raiders, who came with the Arabs into the camp, had killed all the older sons. So Ahaziah son of Jehoram king of Judah began to reign.
22:2	Ahaziah was twenty-two [Some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac (see also 2 Kings 8:26); Hebrew forty-two] years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for one year. His mother’s name was Athaliah, a granddaughter of Omri.
22:3	He too walked in the ways of the house of Ahab, for his mother encouraged him in doing wrong.
22:4	He did evil in the eyes of the LORD, as the house of Ahab had done, for after his father’s death they became his advisers, to his undoing.
22:5	He also followed their counsel when he went with Joram [Hebrew Jehoram, a variant of Joram; also in verses 6 and 7] son of Ahab king of Israel to war against Hazael king of Aram at Ramoth Gilead. The Arameans wounded Joram;
22:6	so he returned to Jezreel to recover from the wounds they had inflicted on him at Ramoth [Hebrew Ramah, a variant of Ramoth] in his battle with Hazael king of Aram. Then Ahaziah [Some Hebrew manuscripts, Septuagint, Vulgate and Syriac (see also 2 Kings 8:29); most Hebrew manuscripts Azariah] son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to Jezreel to see Joram son of Ahab because he had been wounded.
22:7	Through Ahaziah’s visit to Joram, God brought about Ahaziah’s downfall. When Ahaziah arrived, he went out with Joram to meet Jehu son of Nimshi, whom the LORD had anointed to destroy the house of Ahab.
22:8	While Jehu was executing judgment on the house of Ahab, he found the princes of Judah and the sons of Ahaziah’s relatives, who had been attending Ahaziah, and he killed them.
22:9	He then went in search of Ahaziah, and his men captured him while he was hiding in Samaria. He was brought to Jehu and put to death. They buried him, for they said, “He was a son of Jehoshaphat, who sought the LORD with all his heart.” So there was no-one in the house of Ahaziah powerful enough to retain the kingdom.
22:10	When Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she proceeded to destroy the whole royal family of the house of Judah.
22:11	But Jehosheba, [Hebrew Jehoshabeath, a variant of Jehosheba] the daughter of King Jehoram, took Joash son of Ahaziah and stole him away from among the royal princes who were about to be murdered and put him and his nurse in a bedroom. Because Jehosheba, [Hebrew Jehoshabeath, a variant of Jehosheba] the daughter of King Jehoram and wife of the priest Jehoiada, was Ahaziah’s sister, she hid the child from Athaliah so that she could not kill him.
22:12	He remained hidden with them at the temple of God for six years while Athaliah ruled the land.
23:1	In the seventh year Jehoiada showed his strength. He made a covenant with the commanders of units of a hundred: Azariah son of Jeroham, Ishmael son of Jehohanan, Azariah son of Obed, Maaseiah son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat son of Zicri.
23:2	They went throughout Judah and gathered the Levites and the heads of Israelite families from all the towns. When they came to Jerusalem,
23:3	the whole assembly made a covenant with the king at the temple of God. Jehoiada said to them, “The king’s son shall reign, as the LORD promised concerning the descendants of David.
23:4	Now this is what you are to do: A third of you priests and Levites who are going on duty on the Sabbath are to keep watch at the doors,
23:5	a third of you at the royal palace and a third at the Foundation Gate, and all the other men are to be in the courtyards of the temple of the LORD.
23:6	No-one is to enter the temple of the LORD except the priests and Levites on duty; they may enter because they are consecrated, but all the other men are to guard what the LORD has assigned to them. [Or to observe the LORD’s command not to enter]
23:7	The Levites are to station themselves round the king, each man with his weapons in his hand. Anyone who enters the temple must be put to death. Stay close to the king wherever he goes.”
23:8	The Levites and all the men of Judah did just as Jehoiada the priest ordered. Each one took his men — those who were going on duty on the Sabbath and those who were going off duty — for Jehoiada the priest had not released any of the divisions.
23:9	Then he gave the commanders of units of a hundred the spears and the large and small shields that had belonged to King David and that were in the temple of God.
23:10	He stationed all the men, each with his weapon in his hand, round the king — near the altar and the temple, from the south side to the north side of the temple.
23:11	Jehoiada and his sons brought out the king’s son and put the crown on him; they presented him with a copy of the covenant and proclaimed him king. They anointed him and shouted, “Long live the king!”
23:12	When Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and cheering the king, she went to them at the temple of the LORD.
23:13	She looked, and there was the king, standing by his pillar at the entrance. The officers and the trumpeters were beside the king, and all the people of the land were rejoicing and blowing trumpets, and singers with musical instruments were leading the praises. Then Athaliah tore her robes and shouted, “Treason! Treason!”
23:14	Jehoiada the priest sent out the commanders of units of a hundred, who were in charge of the troops, and said to them: “Bring her out between the ranks [Or out from the precincts] and put to the sword anyone who follows her.” For the priest had said, “Do not put her to death at the temple of the LORD.”
23:15	So they seized her as she reached the entrance of the Horse Gate on the palace grounds, and there they put her to death.
23:16	Jehoiada then made a covenant that he and the people and the king [Or covenant between the LORD and the people and the king that they (see 2 Kings 11:17)] would be the LORD’s people.
23:17	All the people went to the temple of Baal and tore it down. They smashed the altars and idols and killed Mattan the priest of Baal in front of the altars.
23:18	Then Jehoiada placed the oversight of the temple of the LORD in the hands of the priests, who were Levites, to whom David had made assignments in the temple, to present the burnt offerings of the LORD as written in the Law of Moses, with rejoicing and singing, as David had ordered.
23:19	He also stationed doorkeepers at the gates of the LORD’s temple so that no-one who was in any way unclean might enter.
23:20	He took with him the commanders of hundreds, the nobles, the rulers of the people and all the people of the land and brought the king down from the temple of the LORD. They went into the palace through the Upper Gate and seated the king on the royal throne,
23:21	and all the people of the land rejoiced. And the city was quiet, because Athaliah had been slain with the sword.
24:1	Joash was seven years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for forty years. His mother’s name was Zibiah; she was from Beersheba.
24:2	Joash did what was right in the eyes of the LORD all the years of Jehoiada the priest.
24:3	Jehoiada chose two wives for him, and he had sons and daughters.
24:4	Some time later Joash decided to restore the temple of the LORD.
24:5	He called together the priests and Levites and said to them, “Go to the towns of Judah and collect the money due annually from all Israel, to repair the temple of your God. Do it now.” But the Levites did not act at once.
24:6	Therefore the king summoned Jehoiada the chief priest and said to him, “Why haven’t you required the Levites to bring in from Judah and Jerusalem the tax imposed by Moses the servant of the LORD and by the assembly of Israel for the Tent of the Testimony?”
24:7	Now the sons of that wicked woman Athaliah had broken into the temple of God and had used even its sacred objects for the Baals.
24:8	At the king’s command, a chest was made and placed outside, at the gate of the temple of the LORD.
24:9	A proclamation was then issued in Judah and Jerusalem that they should bring to the LORD the tax that Moses the servant of God had required of Israel in the desert.
24:10	All the officials and all the people brought their contributions gladly, dropping them into the chest until it was full.
24:11	Whenever the chest was brought in by the Levites to the king’s officials and they saw that there was a large amount of money, the royal secretary and the officer of the chief priest would come and empty the chest and carry it back to its place. They did this regularly and collected a great amount of money.
24:12	The king and Jehoiada gave it to the men who carried out the work required for the temple of the LORD. They hired masons and carpenters to restore the LORD’s temple, and also workers in iron and bronze to repair the temple.
24:13	The men in charge of the work were diligent, and the repairs progressed under them. They rebuilt the temple of God according to its original design and reinforced it.
24:14	When they had finished, they brought the rest of the money to the king and Jehoiada, and with it were made articles for the LORD’s temple: articles for the service and for the burnt offerings, and also dishes and other objects of gold and silver. As long as Jehoiada lived, burnt offerings were presented continually in the temple of the LORD.
24:15	Now Jehoiada was old and full of years, and he died at the age of a hundred and thirty.
24:16	He was buried with the kings in the City of David, because of the good he had done in Israel for God and his temple.
24:17	After the death of Jehoiada, the officials of Judah came and paid homage to the king, and he listened to them.
24:18	They abandoned the temple of the LORD, the God of their fathers, and worshipped Asherah poles and idols. Because of their guilt, God’s anger came upon Judah and Jerusalem.
24:19	Although the LORD sent prophets to the people to bring them back to him, and though they testified against them, they would not listen.
24:20	Then the Spirit of God came upon Zechariah son of Jehoiada the priest. He stood before the people and said, “This is what God says: `Why do you disobey the LORD’s commands? You will not prosper. Because you have forsaken the LORD, he has forsaken you.’“
24:21	But they plotted against him, and by order of the king they stoned him to death in the courtyard of the LORD’s temple.
24:22	King Joash did not remember the kindness Zechariah’s father Jehoiada had shown him but killed his son, who said as he lay dying, “May the LORD see this and call you to account.”
24:23	At the turn of the year, [Probably in the spring] the army of Aram marched against Joash; it invaded Judah and Jerusalem and killed all the leaders of the people. They sent all the plunder to their king in Damascus.
24:24	Although the Aramean army had come with only a few men, the LORD delivered into their hands a much larger army. Because Judah had forsaken the LORD, the God of their fathers, judgment was executed on Joash.
24:25	When the Arameans withdrew, they left Joash severely wounded. His officials conspired against him for murdering the son of Jehoiada the priest, and they killed him in his bed. So he died and was buried in the City of David, but not in the tombs of the kings.
24:26	Those who conspired against him were Zabad, [A variant of Jozabad] son of Shimeath an Ammonite woman, and Jehozabad, son of Shimrith [A variant of Shomer] a Moabite woman.
24:27	The account of his sons, the many prophecies about him, and the record of the restoration of the temple of God are written in the annotations on the book of the kings. And Amaziah his son succeeded him as king.
25:1	Amaziah was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for twenty-nine years. His mother’s name was Jehoaddin; [Hebrew Jehoaddan, a variant of Jehoaddin] she was from Jerusalem.
25:2	He did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, but not wholeheartedly.
25:3	After the kingdom was firmly in his control, he executed the officials who had murdered his father the king.
25:4	Yet he did not put their sons to death, but acted in accordance with what is written in the Law, in the Book of Moses, where the LORD commanded: “Fathers shall not be put to death for their children, nor children put to death for their fathers; each is to die for his own sins.” [Deut. 24:16]
25:5	Amaziah called the people of Judah together and assigned them according to their families to commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds for all Judah and Benjamin. He then mustered those twenty years old or more and found that there were three hundred thousand men ready for military service, able to handle the spear and shield.
25:6	He also hired a hundred thousand fighting men from Israel for a hundred talents [That is, about 3 1/3 tons (about 3.4 metric tons); also in verse 9] of silver.
25:7	But a man of God came to him and said, “O king, these troops from Israel must not march with you, for the LORD is not with Israel — not with any of the people of Ephraim.
25:8	Even if you go and fight courageously in battle, God will overthrow you before the enemy, for God has the power to help or to overthrow.”
25:9	Amaziah asked the man of God, “But what about the hundred talents I paid for these Israelite troops?” The man of God replied, “The LORD can give you much more than that.”
25:10	So Amaziah dismissed the troops who had come to him from Ephraim and sent them home. They were furious with Judah and left for home in a great rage.
25:11	Amaziah then marshalled his strength and led his army to the Valley of Salt, where he killed ten thousand men of Seir.
25:12	The army of Judah also captured ten thousand men alive, took them to the top of a cliff and threw them down so that all were dashed to pieces.
25:13	Meanwhile the troops that Amaziah had sent back and had not allowed to take part in the war raided Judean towns from Samaria to Beth Horon. They killed three thousand people and carried off great quantities of plunder.
25:14	When Amaziah returned from slaughtering the Edomites, he brought back the gods of the people of Seir. He set them up as his own gods, bowed down to them and burned sacrifices to them.
25:15	The anger of the LORD burned against Amaziah, and he sent a prophet to him, who said, “Why do you consult this people’s gods, which could not save their own people from your hand?”
25:16	While he was still speaking, the king said to him, “Have we appointed you an adviser to the king? Stop! Why be struck down?” So the prophet stopped but said, “I know that God has determined to destroy you, because you have done this and have not listened to my counsel.”
25:17	After Amaziah king of Judah consulted his advisers, he sent this challenge to Jehoash [Hebrew Joash, a variant of Jehoash; also in verses 18, 21, 23 and 25] son of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, king of Israel: “Come, meet me face to face.”
25:18	But Jehoash king of Israel replied to Amaziah king of Judah, “A thistle in Lebanon sent a message to a cedar in Lebanon, `Give your daughter to my son in marriage.’ Then a wild beast in Lebanon came along and trampled the thistle underfoot.
25:19	You say to yourself that you have defeated Edom, and now you are arrogant and proud. But stay at home! Why ask for trouble and cause your own downfall and that of Judah also?”
25:20	Amaziah, however, would not listen, for God so worked that he might hand them over to Jehoash, because they sought the gods of Edom.
25:21	So Jehoash king of Israel attacked. He and Amaziah king of Judah faced each other at Beth Shemesh in Judah.
25:22	Judah was routed by Israel, and every man fled to his home.
25:23	Jehoash king of Israel captured Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Joash, the son of Ahaziah, [Hebrew Jehoahaz, a variant of Ahaziah] at Beth Shemesh. Then Jehoash brought him to Jerusalem and broke down the wall of Jerusalem from the Ephraim Gate to the Corner Gate — a section about six hundred feet [Hebrew four hundred cubits (about 180 metres)] long.
25:24	He took all the gold and silver and all the articles found in the temple of God that had been in the care of Obed-Edom, together with the palace treasures and the hostages, and returned to Samaria.
25:25	Amaziah son of Joash king of Judah lived for fifteen years after the death of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel.
25:26	As for the other events of Amaziah’s reign, from beginning to end, are they not written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel?
25:27	From the time that Amaziah turned away from following the LORD, they conspired against him in Jerusalem and he fled to Lachish, but they sent men after him to Lachish and killed him there.
25:28	He was brought back by horse and was buried with his fathers in the City of Judah.
26:1	Then all the people of Judah took Uzziah, [Also called Azariah] who was sixteen years old, and made him king in place of his father Amaziah.
26:2	He was the one who rebuilt Elath and restored it to Judah after Amaziah rested with his fathers.
26:3	Uzziah was sixteen years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for fifty-two years. His mother’s name was Jecoliah; she was from Jerusalem.
26:4	He did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, just as his father Amaziah had done.
26:5	He sought God during the days of Zechariah, who instructed him in the fear [Many Hebrew manuscripts, Septuagint and Syriac; other Hebrew manuscripts vision] of God. As long as he sought the LORD, God gave him success.
26:6	He went to war against the Philistines and broke down the walls of Gath, Jabneh and Ashdod. He then rebuilt towns near Ashdod and elsewhere among the Philistines.
26:7	God helped him against the Philistines and against the Arabs who lived in Gur Baal and against the Meunites.
26:8	The Ammonites brought tribute to Uzziah, and his fame spread as far as the border of Egypt, because he had become very powerful.
26:9	Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the Corner Gate, at the Valley Gate and at the angle of the wall, and he fortified them.
26:10	He also built towers in the desert and dug many cisterns, because he had much livestock in the foothills and in the plain. He had people working his fields and vineyards in the hills and in the fertile lands, for he loved the soil.
26:11	Uzziah had a well-trained army, ready to go out by divisions according to their numbers as mustered by Jeiel the secretary and Maaseiah the officer under the direction of Hananiah, one of the royal officials.
26:12	The total number of family leaders over the fighting men was 2,600.
26:13	Under their command was an army of 307,500 men trained for war, a powerful force to support the king against his enemies.
26:14	Uzziah provided shields, spears, helmets, coats of armour, bows and slingstones for the entire army.
26:15	In Jerusalem he made machines designed by skilful men for use on the towers and on the corner defences to shoot arrows and hurl large stones. His fame spread far and wide, for he was greatly helped until he became powerful.
26:16	But after Uzziah became powerful, his pride led to his downfall. He was unfaithful to the LORD his God, and entered the temple of the LORD to burn incense on the altar of incense.
26:17	Azariah the priest with eighty other courageous priests of the LORD followed him in.
26:18	They confronted him and said, “It is not right for you, Uzziah, to burn incense to the LORD. That is for the priests, the descendants of Aaron, who have been consecrated to burn incense. Leave the sanctuary, for you have been unfaithful; and you will not be honoured by the LORD God.”
26:19	Uzziah, who had a censer in his hand ready to burn incense, became angry. While he was raging at the priests in their presence before the incense altar in the LORD’s temple, leprosy [The Hebrew word was used for various diseases affecting the skin — not necessarily leprosy; also in verses 20, 21 and 23.] broke out on his forehead.
26:20	When Azariah the chief priest and all the other priests looked at him, they saw that he had leprosy on his forehead, so they hurried him out. Indeed, he himself was eager to leave, because the LORD had afflicted him.
26:21	King Uzziah had leprosy until the day he died. He lived in a separate house — [Or in a house where he was relieved of responsibilities] leprous, and excluded from the temple of the LORD. Jotham his son had charge of the palace and governed the people of the land.
26:22	The other events of Uzziah’s reign, from beginning to end, are recorded by the prophet Isaiah son of Amoz.
26:23	Uzziah rested with his fathers and was buried near them in a field for burial that belonged to the kings, for people said, “He had leprosy.” And Jotham his son succeeded him as king.
27:1	Jotham was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for sixteen years. His mother’s name was Jerusha daughter of Zadok.
27:2	He did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, just as his father Uzziah had done, but unlike him he did not enter the temple of the LORD. The people, however, continued their corrupt practices.
27:3	Jotham rebuilt the Upper Gate of the temple of the LORD and did extensive work on the wall at the hill of Ophel.
27:4	He built towns in the Judean hills and forts and towers in the wooded areas.
27:5	Jotham made war on the king of the Ammonites and conquered them. That year the Ammonites paid him a hundred talents [That is, about 3 1/3 tons (about 3.4 metric tons)] of silver, ten thousand cors [That is, probably about 60,500 bushels (about 2,200 kilolitres)] of wheat and ten thousand cors of barley. The Ammonites brought him the same amount also in the second and third years.
27:6	Jotham grew powerful because he walked steadfastly before the LORD his God.
27:7	The other events in Jotham’s reign, including all his wars and the other things he did, are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah.
27:8	He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for sixteen years.
27:9	Jotham rested with his fathers and was buried in the City of David. And Ahaz his son succeeded him as king.
28:1	Ahaz was twenty years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for sixteen years. Unlike David his father, he did not do what was right in the eyes of the LORD.
28:2	He walked in the ways of the kings of Israel and also made cast idols for worshipping the Baals.
28:3	He burned sacrifices in the Valley of Ben Hinnom and sacrificed his sons in the fire, following the detestable ways of the nations that the LORD had driven out before the Israelites.
28:4	He offered sacrifices and burned incense at the high places, on the hilltops and under every spreading tree.
28:5	Therefore the LORD his God handed him over to the king of Aram. The Arameans defeated him and took many of his people as prisoners and brought them to Damascus. He was also given into the hands of the king of Israel, who inflicted heavy casualties on him.
28:6	In one day Pekah son of Remaliah killed a hundred and twenty thousand soldiers in Judah — because Judah had forsaken the LORD, the God of their fathers.
28:7	Zicri, an Ephraimite warrior, killed Maaseiah the king’s son, Azrikam the officer in charge of the palace, and Elkanah, second to the king.
28:8	The Israelites took captive from their kinsmen two hundred thousand wives, sons and daughters. They also took a great deal of plunder, which they carried back to Samaria.
28:9	But a prophet of the LORD named Oded was there, and he went out to meet the army when it returned to Samaria. He said to them, “Because the LORD, the God of your fathers, was angry with Judah, he gave them into your hand. But you have slaughtered them in a rage that reaches to heaven.
28:10	And now you intend to make the men and women of Judah and Jerusalem your slaves. But aren’t you also guilty of sins against the LORD your God?
28:11	Now listen to me! Send back your fellow countrymen that you have taken as prisoners, for the LORD’s fierce anger rests on you.”
28:12	Then some of the leaders in Ephraim — Azariah son of Jehohanan, Berekiah son of Meshillemoth, Jehizkiah son of Shallum, and Amasa son of Hadlai — confronted those who were arriving from the war.
28:13	“You must not bring those prisoners here,” they said, “or we will be guilty before the LORD. Do you intend to add to our sin and guilt? For our guilt is already great, and his fierce anger rests on Israel.”
28:14	So the soldiers gave up the prisoners and plunder in the presence of the officials and all the assembly.
28:15	The men designated by name took the prisoners, and from the plunder they clothed all who were naked. They provided them with clothes and sandals, food and drink, and healing balm. All those who were weak they put on donkeys. So they took them back to their fellow countrymen at Jericho, the City of Palms, and returned to Samaria.
28:16	At that time King Ahaz sent to the king [One Hebrew manuscript, Septuagint and Vulgate (see also 2 Kings 16:7); most Hebrew manuscripts kings] of Assyria for help.
28:17	The Edomites had again come and attacked Judah and carried away prisoners,
28:18	while the Philistines had raided towns in the foothills and in the Negev of Judah. They captured and occupied Beth Shemesh, Aijalon and Gederoth, as well as Soco, Timnah and Gimzo, with their surrounding villages.
28:19	The LORD had humbled Judah because of Ahaz king of Israel, [That is, Judah, as frequently in 2 Chronicles] for he had promoted wickedness in Judah and had been most unfaithful to the LORD.
28:20	Tiglath-Pileser [Hebrew Tilgath-Pilneser, a variant of Tiglath-Pileser] king of Assyria came to him, but gave him trouble instead of help.
28:21	Ahaz took some of the things from the temple of the LORD and from the royal palace and from the princes and presented them to the king of Assyria, but that did not help him.
28:22	In his time of trouble King Ahaz became even more unfaithful to the LORD.
28:23	He offered sacrifices to the gods of Damascus, who had defeated him; for he thought, “Since the gods of the kings of Aram have helped them, I will sacrifice to them so that they will help me.” But they were his downfall and the downfall of all Israel.
28:24	Ahaz gathered together the furnishings from the temple of God and took them away. [Or and cut them up] He shut the doors of the LORD’s temple and set up altars at every street corner in Jerusalem.
28:25	In every town in Judah he built high places to burn sacrifices to other gods and provoked the LORD, the God of his fathers, to anger.
28:26	The other events of his reign and all his ways, from beginning to end, are written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.
28:27	Ahaz rested with his fathers and was buried in the city of Jerusalem, but he was not placed in the tombs of the kings of Israel. And Hezekiah his son succeeded him as king.
29:1	Hezekiah was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for twenty-nine years. His mother’s name was Abijah daughter of Zechariah.
29:2	He did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, just as his father David had done.
29:3	In the first month of the first year of his reign, he opened the doors of the temple of the LORD and repaired them.
29:4	He brought in the priests and the Levites, assembled them in the square on the east side
29:5	and said, “Listen to me, Levites! Consecrate yourselves now and consecrate the temple of the LORD, the God of your fathers. Remove all defilement from the sanctuary.
29:6	Our fathers were unfaithful; they did evil in the eyes of the LORD our God and forsook him. They turned their faces away from the LORD’s dwelling-place and turned their backs on him.
29:7	They also shut the doors of the portico and put out the lamps. They did not burn incense or present any burnt offerings at the sanctuary to the God of Israel.
29:8	Therefore, the anger of the LORD has fallen on Judah and Jerusalem; he has made them an object of dread and horror and scorn, as you can see with your own eyes.
29:9	This is why our fathers have fallen by the sword and why our sons and daughters and our wives are in captivity.
29:10	Now I intend to make a covenant with the LORD, the God of Israel, so that his fierce anger will turn away from us.
29:11	My sons, do not be negligent now, for the LORD has chosen you to stand before him and serve him, to minister before him and to burn incense.”
29:12	Then these Levites set to work: from the Kohathites, Mahath son of Amasai and Joel son of Azariah; from the Merarites, Kish son of Abdi and Azariah son of Jehallelel; from the Gershonites, Joah son of Zimmah and Eden son of Joah;
29:13	from the descendants of Elizaphan, Shimri and Jeiel; from the descendants of Asaph, Zechariah and Mattaniah;
29:14	from the descendants of Heman, Jehiel and Shimei; from the descendants of Jeduthun, Shemaiah and Uzziel.
29:15	When they had assembled their brothers and consecrated themselves, they went in to purify the temple of the LORD, as the king had ordered, following the word of the LORD.
29:16	The priests went into the sanctuary of the LORD to purify it. They brought out to the courtyard of the LORD’s temple everything unclean that they found in the temple of the LORD. The Levites took it and carried it out to the Kidron Valley.
29:17	They began the consecration on the first day of the first month, and by the eighth day of the month they reached the portico of the LORD. For eight more days they consecrated the temple of the LORD itself, finishing in the sixteenth day of the first month.
29:18	Then they went in to King Hezekiah and reported: “We have purified the entire temple of the LORD, the altar of burnt offering with all its utensils, and the table for setting out the consecrated bread, with all its articles.
29:19	We have prepared and consecrated all the articles that King Ahaz removed in his unfaithfulness while he was king. They are now in front of the LORD’s altar.”
29:20	Early the next morning King Hezekiah gathered the city officials together and went up to the temple of the LORD.
29:21	They brought seven bulls, seven rams, seven male lambs and seven male goats as a sin offering for the kingdom, for the sanctuary and for Judah. The king commanded the priests, the descendants of Aaron, to offer these on the altar of the LORD.
29:22	So they slaughtered the bulls, and the priests took the blood and sprinkled it on the altar; next they slaughtered the rams and sprinkled their blood on the altar; then they slaughtered the lambs and sprinkled their blood on the altar.
29:23	The goats for the sin offering were brought before the king and the assembly, and they laid their hands on them.
29:24	The priests then slaughtered the goats and presented their blood on the altar for a sin offering to atone for all Israel, because the king had ordered the burnt offering and the sin offering for all Israel.
29:25	He stationed the Levites in the temple of the LORD with cymbals, harps and lyres in the way prescribed by David and Gad the king’s seer and Nathan the prophet; this was commanded by the LORD through his prophets.
29:26	So the Levites stood ready with David’s instruments, and the priests with their trumpets.
29:27	Hezekiah gave the order to sacrifice the burnt offering on the altar. As the offering began, singing to the LORD began also, accompanied by trumpets and the instruments of David king of Israel.
29:28	The whole assembly bowed in worship, while the singers sang and the trumpeters played. All this continued until the sacrifice of the burnt offering was completed.
29:29	When the offerings were finished, the king and everyone present with him knelt down and worshipped.
29:30	King Hezekiah and his officials ordered the Levites to praise the LORD with the words of David and of Asaph the seer. So they sang praises with gladness and bowed their heads and worshipped.
29:31	Then Hezekiah said, “You have now dedicated yourselves to the LORD. Come and bring sacrifices and thank-offerings to the temple of the LORD.” So the assembly brought sacrifices and thank-offerings, and all whose hearts were willing brought burnt offerings.
29:32	The number of burnt offerings the assembly brought was seventy bulls, a hundred rams and two hundred male lambs — all of them for burnt offerings to the LORD.
29:33	The animals consecrated as sacrifices amounted to six hundred bulls and three thousand sheep and goats.
29:34	The priests, however, were too few to skin all the burnt offerings; so their kinsmen the Levites helped them until the task was finished and until other priests had been consecrated, for the Levites had been more conscientious in consecrating themselves than the priests had been.
29:35	There were burnt offerings in abundance, together with the fat of the fellowship offerings [Traditionally peace offerings] and the drink offerings that accompanied the burnt offerings. So the service of the temple of the LORD was re-established.
29:36	Hezekiah and all the people rejoiced at what God had brought about for his people, because it was done so quickly.
30:1	Hezekiah sent word to all Israel and Judah and also wrote letters to Ephraim and Manasseh, inviting them to come to the temple of the LORD in Jerusalem and celebrate the Passover to the LORD, the God of Israel.
30:2	The king and his officials and the whole assembly in Jerusalem decided to celebrate the Passover in the second month.
30:3	They had not been able to celebrate it at the regular time because not enough priests had consecrated themselves and the people had not assembled in Jerusalem.
30:4	The plan seemed right both to the king and to the whole assembly.
30:5	They decided to send a proclamation throughout Israel, from Beersheba to Dan, calling the people to come to Jerusalem and celebrate the Passover to the LORD, the God of Israel. It had not been celebrated in large numbers according to what was written.
30:6	At the king’s command, couriers went throughout Israel and Judah with letters from the king and from his officials, which read: “People of Israel, return to the LORD, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Israel, that he may return to you who are left, who have escaped from the hand of the kings of Assyria.
30:7	Do not be like your fathers and brothers, who were unfaithful to the LORD, the God of their fathers, so that he made them an object of horror, as you see.
30:8	Do not be stiff-necked, as your fathers were; submit to the LORD. Come to the sanctuary, which he has consecrated for ever. Serve the LORD your God, so that his fierce anger will turn away from you.
30:9	If you return to the LORD, then your brothers and your children will be shown compassion by their captors and will come back to this land, for the LORD your God is gracious and compassionate. He will not turn his face from you if you return to him.”
30:10	The couriers went from town to town in Ephraim and Manasseh, as far as Zebulun, but the people scorned and ridiculed them.
30:11	Nevertheless, some men of Asher, Manasseh and Zebulun humbled themselves and went to Jerusalem.
30:12	Also in Judah the hand of God was on the people to give them unity of mind to carry out what the king and his officials had ordered, following the word of the LORD.
30:13	A very large crowd of people assembled in Jerusalem to celebrate the Feast of Unleavened Bread in the second month.
30:14	They removed the altars in Jerusalem and cleared away the incense altars and threw them into the Kidron Valley.
30:15	They slaughtered the Passover lamb on the fourteenth day of the second month. The priests and the Levites were ashamed and consecrated themselves and brought burnt offerings to the temple of the LORD.
30:16	Then they took up their regular positions as prescribed in the Law of Moses the man of God. The priests sprinkled the blood handed to them by the Levites.
30:17	Since many in the crowd had not consecrated themselves, the Levites had to kill the Passover lambs for all those who were not ceremonially clean and could not consecrate their lambs to the LORD.
30:18	Although most of the many people who came from Ephraim, Manasseh, Issachar and Zebulun had not purified themselves, yet they ate the Passover, contrary to what was written. But Hezekiah prayed for them, saying, “May the LORD, who is good, pardon everyone
30:19	who sets his heart on seeking God — the LORD, the God of his fathers — even if he is not clean according to the rules of the sanctuary.”
30:20	And the LORD heard Hezekiah and healed the people.
30:21	The Israelites who were present in Jerusalem celebrated the Feast of Unleavened Bread for seven days with great rejoicing, while the Levites and priests sang to the LORD every day, accompanied by the LORD’s instruments of praise. [Or priests praised the LORD every day with resounding instruments belonging to the LORD.]
30:22	Hezekiah spoke encouragingly to all the Levites, who showed good understanding of the service of the LORD. For the seven days they ate their assigned portion and offered fellowship offerings [Traditionally peace offerings] and praised the LORD, the God of their fathers.
30:23	The whole assembly then agreed to celebrate the festival seven more days; so for another seven days they celebrated joyfully.
30:24	Hezekiah king of Judah provided a thousand bulls and seven thousand sheep and goats for the assembly, and the officials provided them with a thousand bulls and ten thousand sheep and goats. A great number of priests consecrated themselves.
30:25	The entire assembly of Judah rejoiced, along with the priests and Levites and all who had assembled from Israel, including the aliens who had come from Israel and those who lived in Judah.
30:26	There was great joy in Jerusalem, for since the days of Solomon son of David king of Israel there had been nothing like this in Jerusalem.
30:27	The priests and the Levites stood to bless the people, and God heard them, for their prayer reached heaven, his holy dwelling-place.
31:1	When all this had ended, the Israelites who were there went out to the towns of Judah, smashed the sacred stones and cut down the Asherah poles. They destroyed the high places and the altars throughout Judah and Benjamin and in Ephraim and Manasseh. After they had destroyed all of them, the Israelites returned to their own towns and to their own property.
31:2	Hezekiah assigned the priests and Levites to divisions — each of them according to their duties as priests or Levites — to offer burnt offerings and fellowship offerings, [Traditionally peace offerings] to minister, to give thanks and to sing praises at the gates of the LORD’s dwelling.
31:3	The king contributed from his own possessions for the morning and evening burnt offerings and for the burnt offerings on the Sabbaths, New Moons and appointed feasts as written in the Law of the LORD.
31:4	He ordered the people living in Jerusalem to give the portion due to the priests and Levites so that they could devote themselves to the Law of the LORD.
31:5	As soon as the order went out, the Israelites generously gave the firstfruits of their grain, new wine, oil and honey and all that the fields produced. They brought a great amount, a tithe of everything.
31:6	The men of Israel and Judah who lived in the towns of Judah also brought a tithe of their herds and flocks and a tithe of the holy things dedicated to the LORD their God, and they piled them in heaps.
31:7	They began doing this in the third month and finished in the seventh month.
31:8	When Hezekiah and his officials came and saw the heaps, they praised the LORD and blessed his people Israel.
31:9	Hezekiah asked the priests and Levites about the heaps;
31:10	and Azariah the chief priest, from the family of Zadok, answered, “Since the people began to bring their contributions to the temple of the LORD, we have had enough to eat and plenty to spare, because the LORD has blessed his people, and this great amount is left over.”
31:11	Hezekiah gave orders to prepare storerooms in the temple of the LORD, and this was done.
31:12	Then they faithfully brought in the contributions, tithes and dedicated gifts. Conaniah, a Levite, was in charge of these things, and his brother Shimei was next in rank.
31:13	Jehiel, Azaziah, Nahath, Asahel, Jerimoth, Jozabad, Eliel, Ismakiah, Mahath and Benaiah were supervisors under Conaniah and Shimei his brother, by appointment of King Hezekiah and Azariah the official in charge of the temple of God.
31:14	Kore son of Imnah the Levite, keeper of the East Gate, was in charge of the freewill offerings given to God, distributing the contributions made to the LORD and also the consecrated gifts.
31:15	Eden, Miniamin, Jeshua, Shemaiah, Amariah and Shecaniah assisted him faithfully in the towns of the priests, distributing to their fellow priests according to their divisions, old and young alike.
31:16	In addition, they distributed to the males three years old or more whose names were in the genealogical records — all who would enter the temple of the LORD to perform the daily duties of their various tasks, according to their responsibilities and their divisions.
31:17	And they distributed to the priests enrolled by their families in the genealogical records and likewise to the Levites twenty years old or more, according to their responsibilities and their divisions.
31:18	They included all the little ones, the wives, and the sons and daughters of the whole community listed in these genealogical records. For they were faithful in consecrating themselves.
31:19	As for the priests, the descendants of Aaron, who lived on the farm lands around their towns or in any other towns, men were designated by name to distribute portions to every male among them and to all who were recorded in the genealogies of the Levites.
31:20	This is what Hezekiah did throughout Judah, doing what was good and right and faithful before the LORD his God.
31:21	In everything that he undertook in the service of God’s temple and in obedience to the law and the commands, he sought his God and worked wholeheartedly. And so he prospered.
32:1	After all that Hezekiah had so faithfully done, Sennacherib king of Assyria came and invaded Judah. He laid siege to the fortified cities, thinking to conquer them for himself.
32:2	When Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib had come and that he intended to make war on Jerusalem,
32:3	he consulted with his officials and military staff about blocking off the water from the springs outside the city, and they helped him.
32:4	A large force of men assembled, and they blocked all the springs and the stream that flowed through the land. “Why should the kings [Hebrew; Septuagint and Syriac king] of Assyria come and find plenty of water?” they said.
32:5	Then he worked hard repairing all the broken sections of the wall and building towers on it. He built another wall outside that one and reinforced the supporting terraces [Or the Millo] of the City of David. He also made large numbers of weapons and shields.
32:6	He appointed military officers over the people and assembled them before him in the square at the city gate and encouraged them with these words:
32:7	“Be strong and courageous. Do not be afraid or discouraged because of the king of Assyria and the vast army with him, for there is a greater power with us than with him.
32:8	With him is only the arm of flesh, but with us is the LORD our God to help us and to fight our battles.” And the people gained confidence from what Hezekiah the king of Judah said.
32:9	Later, when Sennacherib king of Assyria and all his forces were laying siege to Lachish, he sent his officers to Jerusalem with this message for Hezekiah king of Judah and for all the people of Judah who were there:
32:10	“This is what Sennacherib king of Assyria says: On what are you basing your confidence, that you remain in Jerusalem under siege?
32:11	When Hezekiah says, `The LORD our God will save us from the hand of the king of Assyria,’ he is misleading you, to let you die of hunger and thirst.
32:12	Did not Hezekiah himself remove this god’s high places and altars, saying to Judah and Jerusalem, `You must worship before one altar and burn sacrifices on it’?
32:13	“Do you not know what I and my fathers have done to all the peoples of the other lands? Were the gods of those nations ever able to deliver their land from my hand?
32:14	Who of all the gods of these nations that my fathers destroyed has been able to save his people from me? How then can your god deliver you from my hand?
32:15	Now do not let Hezekiah deceive you and mislead you like this. Do not believe him, for no god of any nation or kingdom has been able to deliver his people from my hand or the hand of my fathers. How much less will your god deliver you from my hand!”
32:16	Sennacherib’s officers spoke further against the LORD God and against his servant Hezekiah.
32:17	The king also wrote letters insulting the LORD, the God of Israel, and saying this against him: “Just as the gods of the peoples of the other lands did not rescue their people from my hand, so the god of Hezekiah will not rescue his people from my hand.”
32:18	Then they called out in Hebrew to the people of Jerusalem who were on the wall, to terrify them and make them afraid in order to capture the city.
32:19	They spoke about the God of Jerusalem as they did about the gods of the other peoples of the world — the work of men’s hands.
32:20	King Hezekiah and the prophet Isaiah son of Amoz cried out in prayer to heaven about this.
32:21	And the LORD sent an angel, who annihilated all the fighting men and the leaders and officers in the camp of the Assyrian king. So he withdrew to his own land in disgrace. And when he went into the temple of his god, some of his sons cut him down with the sword.
32:22	So the LORD saved Hezekiah and the people of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib king of Assyria and from the hand of all others. He took care of them [Hebrew; Septuagint and Vulgate He gave them rest] on every side.
32:23	Many brought offerings to Jerusalem for the LORD and valuable gifts for Hezekiah king of Judah. From then on he was highly regarded by all the nations.
32:24	In those days Hezekiah became ill and was at the point of death. He prayed to the LORD, who answered him and gave him a miraculous sign.
32:25	But Hezekiah’s heart was proud and he did not respond to the kindness shown him; therefore the LORD’s wrath was on him and on Judah and Jerusalem.
32:26	Then Hezekiah repented of the pride of his heart, as did the people of Jerusalem; therefore the LORD’s wrath did not come upon them during the days of Hezekiah.
32:27	Hezekiah had very great riches and honour, and he made treasuries for his silver and gold and for his precious stones, spices, shields and all kinds of valuables.
32:28	He also made buildings to store the harvest of grain, new wine and oil; and he made stalls for various kinds of cattle, and pens for the flocks.
32:29	He built villages and acquired great numbers of flocks and herds, for God had given him very great riches.
32:30	It was Hezekiah who blocked the upper outlet of the Gihon spring and channelled the water down to the west side of the City of David. He succeeded in everything he undertook.
32:31	But when envoys were sent by the rulers of Babylon to ask him about the miraculous sign that had occurred in the land, God left him to test him and to know everything that was in his heart.
32:32	The other events of Hezekiah’s reign and his acts of devotion are written in the vision of the prophet Isaiah son of Amoz in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.
32:33	Hezekiah rested with his fathers and was buried on the hill where the tombs of David’s descendants are. All Judah and the people of Jerusalem honoured him when he died. And Manasseh his son succeeded him as king.
33:1	Manasseh was twelve years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for fifty-five years.
33:2	He did evil in the eyes of the LORD, following the detestable practices of the nations the LORD had driven out before the Israelites.
33:3	He rebuilt the high places his father Hezekiah had demolished; he also erected altars to the Baals and made Asherah poles. He bowed down to all the starry hosts and worshipped them.
33:4	He built altars in the temple of the LORD, of which the LORD had said, “My Name will remain in Jerusalem for ever.”
33:5	In both courts of the temple of the LORD, he built altars to all the starry hosts.
33:6	He sacrificed his sons in [Or He made his sons pass through] the fire in the Valley of Ben Hinnom, practised sorcery, divination and witchcraft, and consulted mediums and spiritists. He did much evil in the eyes of the LORD, provoking him to anger.
33:7	He took the carved image he had made and put it in God’s temple, of which God had said to David and to his son Solomon, “In this temple and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, I will put my Name for ever.
33:8	I will not again make the feet of the Israelites leave the land I assigned to your forefathers, if only they will be careful to do everything that I commanded them concerning all the laws, decrees and ordinances given through Moses.”
33:9	But Manasseh led Judah and the people of Jerusalem astray, so that they did more evil than the nations the LORD had destroyed before the Israelites.
33:10	The LORD spoke to Manasseh and his people, but they paid no attention.
33:11	So the LORD brought against them the army commanders of the king of Assyria, who took Manasseh prisoner, put a hook in his nose, bound him with bronze shackles and took him to Babylon.
33:12	In his distress he sought the favour of the LORD his God and humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers.
33:13	And when he prayed to him, the LORD was moved by his entreaty and listened to his plea; so he brought him back to Jerusalem and to his kingdom. Then Manasseh knew that the LORD is God.
33:14	Afterwards he rebuilt the outer wall of the City of David, west of the Gihon spring in the valley, as far as the entrance of the Fish Gate and encircling the hill of Ophel; he also made it much higher. He stationed military commanders in all the fortified cities in Judah.
33:15	He got rid of the foreign gods and removed the image from the temple of the LORD, as well as all the altars he had built on the temple hill and in Jerusalem; and he threw them out of the city.
33:16	Then he restored the altar of the LORD and sacrificed fellowship offerings [Traditionally peace offerings] and thank-offerings on it, and told Judah to serve the LORD, the God of Israel.
33:17	The people, however, continued to sacrifice at the high places, but only to the LORD their God.
33:18	The other events of Manasseh’s reign, including his prayer to his God and the words the seers spoke to him in the name of the LORD, the God of Israel, are written in the annals of the kings of Israel. [That is, Judah, as frequently in 2 Chronicles]
33:19	His prayer and how God was moved by his entreaty, as well as all his sins and unfaithfulness, and the sites where he built high places and set up Asherah poles and idols before he humbled himself — all are written in the records of the seers. [One Hebrew manuscript and Septuagint; most Hebrew manuscripts of Hozai]
33:20	Manasseh rested with his fathers and was buried in his palace. And Amon his son succeeded him as king.
33:21	Amon was twenty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for two years.
33:22	He did evil in the eyes of the LORD, as his father Manasseh had done. Amon worshipped and offered sacrifices to all the idols Manasseh had made.
33:23	But unlike his father Manasseh, he did not humble himself before the LORD; Amon increased his guilt.
33:24	Amon’s officials conspired against him and assassinated him in his palace.
33:25	Then the people of the land killed all who had plotted against King Amon, and they made Josiah his son king in his place.
34:1	Josiah was eight years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for thirty-one years.
34:2	He did what was right in the eyes of the LORD and walked in the ways of his father David, not turning aside to the right or to the left.
34:3	In the eighth year of his reign, while he was still young, he began to seek the God of his father David. In his twelfth year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem of high places, Asherah poles, carved idols and cast images.
34:4	Under his direction the altars of the Baals were torn down; he cut to pieces the incense altars that were above them, and smashed the Asherah poles, the idols and the images. These he broke to pieces and scattered over the graves of those who had sacrificed to them.
34:5	He burned the bones of the priests on their altars, and so he purged Judah and Jerusalem.
34:6	In the towns of Manasseh, Ephraim and Simeon, as far as Naphtali, and in the ruins around them,
34:7	he tore down the altars and the Asherah poles and crushed the idols to powder and cut to pieces all the incense altars throughout Israel. Then he went back to Jerusalem.
34:8	In the eighteenth year of Josiah’s reign, to purify the land and the temple, he sent Shaphan son of Azaliah and Maaseiah the ruler of the city, with Joah son of Joahaz, the recorder, to repair the temple of the LORD his God.
34:9	They went to Hilkiah the high priest and gave him the money that had been brought into the temple of God, which the Levites who were the doorkeepers had collected from the people of Manasseh, Ephraim and the entire remnant of Israel and from all the people of Judah and Benjamin and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
34:10	Then they entrusted it to the men appointed to supervise the work on the LORD’s temple. These men paid the workers who repaired and restored the temple.
34:11	They also gave money to the carpenters and builders to purchase dressed stone, and timber for joists and beams for the buildings that the kings of Judah had allowed to fall into ruin.
34:12	The men did the work faithfully. Over them to direct them were Jahath and Obadiah, Levites descended from Merari, and Zechariah and Meshullam, descended from Kohath. The Levites — all who were skilled in playing musical instruments —
34:13	had charge of the labourers and supervised all the workers from job to job. Some of the Levites were secretaries, scribes and doorkeepers.
34:14	While they were bringing out the money that had been taken into the temple of the LORD, Hilkiah the priest found the Book of the Law of the LORD that had been given through Moses.
34:15	Hilkiah said to Shaphan the secretary, “I have found the Book of the Law in the temple of the LORD.” He gave it to Shaphan.
34:16	Then Shaphan took the book to the king and reported to him: “Your officials are doing everything that has been committed to them.
34:17	They have paid out the money that was in the temple of the LORD and have entrusted it to the supervisors and workers.”
34:18	Then Shaphan the secretary informed the king, “Hilkiah the priest has given me a book.” And Shaphan read from it in the presence of the king.
34:19	When the king heard the words of the Law, he tore his robes.
34:20	He gave these orders to Hilkiah, Ahikam son of Shaphan, Abdon son of Micah, [Also called Acbor son of Micaiah] Shaphan the secretary and Asaiah the king’s attendant:
34:21	“Go and enquire of the LORD for me and for the remnant in Israel and Judah about what is written in this book that has been found. Great is the LORD’s anger that is poured out on us because our fathers have not kept the word of the LORD; they have not acted in accordance with all that is written in this book.”
34:22	Hilkiah and those the king had sent with him [One Hebrew manuscript, Vulgate and Syriac; most Hebrew manuscripts do not have had sent with him.] went to speak to the prophetess Huldah, who was the wife of Shallum son of Tokhath, [Also called Tikvah] the son of Hasrah, [Also called Harhas] keeper of the wardrobe. She lived in Jerusalem, in the Second District.
34:23	She said to them, “This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says: Tell the man who sent you to me,
34:24	`This is what the LORD says: I am going to bring disaster on this place and its people — all the curses written in the book that has been read in the presence of the king of Judah.
34:25	Because they have forsaken me and burned incense to other gods and provoked me to anger by all that their hands have made, [Or by everything they have done] my anger will be poured out on this place and will not be quenched.’
34:26	Tell the king of Judah, who sent you to enquire of the LORD, `This is what the LORD, the God of Israel, says concerning the words you heard:
34:27	Because your heart was responsive and you humbled yourself before God when you heard what he spoke against this place and its people, and because you humbled yourself before me and tore your robes and wept in my presence, I have heard you, declares the LORD.
34:28	Now I will gather you to your fathers, and you will be buried in peace. Your eyes will not see all the disaster I am going to bring on this place and on those who live here.’“ So they took her answer back to the king.
34:29	Then the king called together all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem.
34:30	He went up to the temple of the LORD with the men of Judah, the people of Jerusalem, the priests and the Levites — all the people from the least to the greatest. He read in their hearing all the words of the Book of the Covenant, which had been found in the temple of the LORD.
34:31	The king stood by his pillar and renewed the covenant in the presence of the LORD — to follow the LORD and keep his commands, regulations and decrees with all his heart and all his soul, and to obey the words of the covenant written in this book.
34:32	Then he made everyone in Jerusalem and Benjamin pledge themselves to it; the people of Jerusalem did this in accordance with the covenant of God, the God of their fathers.
34:33	Josiah removed all the detestable idols from all the territory belonging to the Israelites, and he made all who were present in Israel serve the LORD their God. As long as he lived, they did not fail to follow the LORD, the God of their fathers.
35:1	Josiah celebrated the Passover to the LORD in Jerusalem, and the Passover lamb was slaughtered on the fourteenth day of the first month.
35:2	He appointed the priests to their duties and encouraged them in the service of the LORD’s temple.
35:3	He said to the Levites, who instructed all Israel and who had been consecrated to the LORD: “Put the sacred ark in the temple that Solomon son of David king of Israel built. It is not to be carried about on your shoulders. Now serve the LORD your God and his people Israel.
35:4	Prepare yourselves by families in your divisions, according to the directions written by David king of Israel and by his son Solomon.
35:5	“Stand in the holy place with a group of Levites for each sub-division of the families of your fellow countrymen, the lay people.
35:6	Slaughter the Passover lambs, consecrate yourselves and prepare the lambs for your fellow countrymen, doing what the LORD commanded through Moses.”
35:7	Josiah provided for all the lay people who were there a total of thirty thousand sheep and goats for the Passover offerings, and also three thousand cattle — all from the king’s own possessions.
35:8	His officials also contributed voluntarily to the people and the priests and Levites. Hilkiah, Zechariah and Jehiel, the administrators of God’s temple, gave the priests two thousand six hundred Passover offerings and three hundred cattle.
35:9	Also Conaniah along with Shemaiah and Nethanel, his brothers, and Hashabiah, Jeiel and Jozabad, the leaders of the Levites, provided five thousand Passover offerings and five hundred head of cattle for the Levites.
35:10	The service was arranged and the priests stood in their places with the Levites in their divisions as the king had ordered.
35:11	The Passover lambs were slaughtered, and the priests sprinkled the blood handed to them, while the Levites skinned the animals.
35:12	They set aside the burnt offerings to give them to the sub-divisions of the families of the people to offer to the LORD, as is written in the Book of Moses. They did the same with the cattle.
35:13	They roasted the Passover animals over the fire as prescribed, and boiled the holy offerings in pots, cauldrons and pans and served them quickly to all the people.
35:14	After this, they made preparations for themselves and for the priests, because the priests, the descendants of Aaron, were sacrificing the burnt offerings and the fat portions until nightfall. So the Levites made preparations for themselves and for the Aaronic priests.
35:15	The musicians, the descendants of Asaph, were in the places prescribed by David, Asaph, Heman and Jeduthun the king’s seer. The gatekeepers at each gate did not need to leave their posts, because their fellow Levites made the preparations for them.
35:16	So at that time the entire service of the LORD was carried out for the celebration of the Passover and the offering of burnt offerings on the altar of the LORD, as King Josiah had ordered.
35:17	The Israelites who were present celebrated the Passover at that time and observed the Feast of Unleavened Bread for seven days.
35:18	The Passover had not been observed like this in Israel since the days of the prophet Samuel; and none of the kings of Israel had ever celebrated such a Passover as did Josiah, with the priests, the Levites and all Judah and Israel who were there with the people of Jerusalem.
35:19	This Passover was celebrated in the eighteenth year of Josiah’s reign.
35:20	After all this, when Josiah had set the temple in order, Neco king of Egypt went up to fight at Carchemish on the Euphrates, and Josiah marched out to meet him in battle.
35:21	But Neco sent messengers to him saying, “What quarrel is there between you and me, O king of Judah? It is not you I am attacking at this time, but the house with which I am at war. God has told me to hurry; so stop opposing God, who is with me, or he will destroy you.”
35:22	Josiah, however, would not turn away from him, but disguised himself to engage him in battle. He would not listen to what Neco had said at God’s command but went to fight him on the plain of Megiddo.
35:23	Archers shot King Josiah, and he told his officers, “Take me away; I am badly wounded.”
35:24	So they took him out of his chariot, put him in the other chariot he had and brought him to Jerusalem, where he died. He was buried in the tombs of his fathers, and all Judah and Jerusalem mourned for him.
35:25	Jeremiah composed laments for Josiah, and to this day all the men and women singers commemorate Josiah in the laments. These became a tradition in Israel and are written in the Laments.
35:26	The other events of Josiah’s reign and his acts of devotion, according to what is written in the Law of the LORD —
35:27	all the events, from beginning to end, are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah.
36:1	And the people of the land took Jehoahaz son of Josiah and made him king in Jerusalem in place of his father.
36:2	Jehoahaz [Hebrew Joahaz, a variant of Jehoahaz; also in verse 4] was twenty-three years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for three months.
36:3	The king of Egypt dethroned him in Jerusalem and imposed on Judah a levy of a hundred talents [That is, about 3 1/3 tons (about 3.4 metric tons)] of silver and a talent [That is, about 75 pounds (about 34 kilograms)] of gold.
36:4	The king of Egypt made Eliakim, a brother of Jehoahaz, king over Judah and Jerusalem and changed Eliakim’s name to Jehoiakim. But Neco took Eliakim’s brother Jehoahaz and carried him off to Egypt.
36:5	Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for eleven years. He did evil in the eyes of the LORD his God.
36:6	Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon attacked him and bound him with bronze shackles to take him to Babylon.
36:7	Nebuchadnezzar also took to Babylon articles from the temple of the LORD and put them in his temple [Or palace] there.
36:8	The other events of Jehoiakim’s reign, the detestable things he did and all that was found against him, are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah. And Jehoiachin his son succeeded him as king.
36:9	Jehoiachin was eighteen [One Hebrew manuscript, some Septuagint manuscripts and Syriac (see also 2 Kings 24:8); most Hebrew manuscripts eight] years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for three months and ten days. He did evil in the eyes of the LORD.
36:10	In the spring, King Nebuchadnezzar sent for him and brought him to Babylon, together with articles of value from the temple of the LORD, and he made Jehoiachin’s uncle, [Hebrew brother, that is, relative (see 2 Kings 24:17)] Zedekiah, king over Judah and Jerusalem.
36:11	Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem for eleven years.
36:12	He did evil in the eyes of the LORD his God and did not humble himself before Jeremiah the prophet, who spoke the word of the LORD.
36:13	He also rebelled against King Nebuchadnezzar, who had made him take an oath in God’s name. He became stiff-necked and hardened his heart and would not turn to the LORD, the God of Israel.
36:14	Furthermore, all the leaders of the priests and the people became more and more unfaithful, following all the detestable practices of the nations and defiling the temple of the LORD, which he had consecrated in Jerusalem.
36:15	The LORD, the God of their fathers, sent word to them through his messengers again and again, because he had pity on his people and on his dwelling-place.
36:16	But they mocked God’s messengers, despised his words and scoffed at his prophets until the wrath of the LORD was aroused against his people and there was no remedy.
36:17	He brought up against them the king of the Babylonians, [Or Chaldeans] who killed their young men with the sword in the sanctuary, and spared neither young man nor young woman, old man or aged. God handed all of them over to Nebuchadnezzar.
36:18	He carried to Babylon all the articles from the temple of God, both large and small, and the treasures of the LORD’s temple and the treasures of the king and his officials.
36:19	They set fire to God’s temple and broke down the wall of Jerusalem; they burned all the palaces and destroyed everything of value there.
36:20	He carried into exile to Babylon the remnant who escaped from the sword, and they became servants to him and his sons until the kingdom of Persia came to power.
36:21	The land enjoyed its sabbath rests; all the time of its desolation it rested, until the seventy years were completed in fulfilment of the word of the LORD spoken by Jeremiah.
36:22	In the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, in order to fulfil the word of the LORD spoken by Jeremiah, the LORD moved the heart of Cyrus king of Persia to make a proclamation throughout his realm and to put it in writing:
36:23	“This is what Cyrus king of Persia says: “`The LORD, the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth and he has appointed me to build a temple for him at Jerusalem in Judah. Anyone of his people among you — may the LORD his God be with him, and let him go up.’“

