



Chapter 1


Genealogy from Adam

          1      Adam, Seth, Enosh, 
          2      Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared, 
          3      Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech, 
          4      Noah, Shem, Ham and Japheth. 
          5      The sons of Japheth were Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech and Tiras. 
          6      The sons of Gomer were Ashkenaz, Diphath, and Togarmah. 
          7      The sons of Javan were Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim and Rodanim. 
          8      The sons of Ham were Cush, Mizraim, Put, and Canaan. 
          9      The sons of Cush were Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raama and Sabteca; and the sons of Raamah were Sheba and Dedan. 
          10      Cush became the father of Nimrod; he began to be a mighty one in the earth. 
          11      Mizraim became the father of the people of Lud, Anam, Lehab, Naphtuh, 
          12      Pathrus, Casluh, from which the Philistines came, and Caphtor. 
          13      Canaan became the father of Sidon, his firstborn, Heth, 
          14      and the Jebusites, the Amorites, the Girgashites, 
          15      the Hivites, the Arkites, the Sinites, 
          16      the Arvadites, the Zemarites and the Hamathites. 
          17      The sons of Shem were Elam, Asshur, Arpachshad, Lud, Aram, Uz, Hul, Gether and Meshech. 
          18      Arpachshad became the father of Shelah and Shelah became the father of Eber. 
          19      Two sons were born to Eber, the name of the one was Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided, and his brother’s name was Joktan. 
          20      Joktan became the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah, 
          21      Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah, 
          22      Ebal, Abimael, Sheba, 
          23      Ophir, Havilah and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan. 
          24      Shem, Arpachshad, Shelah, 
          25      Eber, Peleg, Reu, 
          26      Serug, Nahor, Terah, 
          27      Abram, that is Abraham. 

Descendants of Abraham

          28      The sons of Abraham were Isaac and Ishmael. 
          29      These are their genealogies: the firstborn of Ishmael was Nebaioth, then Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam, 
          30      Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema, 
          31      Jetur, Naphish and Kedemah; these were the sons of Ishmael. 
          32      The sons of Keturah, Abraham’s concubine, whom she bore, were Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan were Sheba and Dedan. 
          33      The sons of Midian were Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida and Eldaah. All these were the sons of Keturah. 
          34      Abraham became the father of Isaac. The sons of Isaac were Esau and Israel. 
          35      The sons of Esau were Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam and Korah. 
          36      The sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zephi, Gatam, Kenaz, Timna and Amalek. 
          37      The sons of Reuel were Nahath, Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah. 
          38      The sons of Seir were Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer and Dishan. 
          39      The sons of Lotan were Hori and Homam; and Lotan’s sister was Timna. 
          40      The sons of Shobal were Alian, Manahath, Ebal, Shephi and Onam. And the sons of Zibeon were Aiah and Anah. 
          41      The son of Anah was Dishon. And the sons of Dishon were Hamran, Eshban, Ithran and Cheran. 
          42      The sons of Ezer were Bilhan, Zaavan and Jaakan. The sons of Dishan were Uz and Aran. 
          43      Now these are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before any king of the sons of Israel reigned. Bela was the son of Beor, and the name of his city was Dinhabah. 
          44      When Bela died, Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah became king in his place. 
          45      When Jobab died, Husham of the land of the Temanites became king in his place. 
          46      When Husham died, Hadad the son of Bedad, who defeated Midian in the field of Moab, became king in his place; and the name of his city was Avith. 
          47      When Hadad died, Samlah of Masrekah became king in his place. 
          48      When Samlah died, Shaul of Rehoboth by the River became king in his place. 
          49      When Shaul died, Baal-hanan the son of Achbor became king in his place. 
          50      When Baal-hanan died, Hadad became king in his place; and the name of his city was Pai, and his wife’s name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab. 
          51      Then Hadad died. 
    Now the chiefs of Edom were: chief Timna, chief Aliah, chief Jetheth, 
          52      chief Oholibamah, chief Elah, chief Pinon, 
          53      chief Kenaz, chief Teman, chief Mibzar, 
          54      chief Magdiel, chief Iram. These were the chiefs of Edom. 




Chapter 2


Genealogy: Twelve Sons of Jacob (Israel)

          1      These are the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun, 
          2      Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad and Asher. 
          3      The sons of Judah were Er, Onan and Shelah; these three were born to him by Bath-shua the Canaanitess. And Er, Judah’s firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the LORD, so He put him to death. 
          4      Tamar his daughter-in-law bore him Perez and Zerah. Judah had five sons in all. 
          5      The sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul. 
          6      The sons of Zerah were Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol and Dara; five of them in all. 
          7      The son of Carmi was Achar, the troubler of Israel, who violated the ban. 
          8      The son of Ethan was Azariah. 

Genealogy of David

          9      Now the sons of Hezron, who were born to him were Jerahmeel, Ram and Chelubai. 
          10      Ram became the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab became the father of Nahshon, leader of the sons of Judah; 
          11      Nahshon became the father of Salma, Salma became the father of Boaz, 
          12      Boaz became the father of Obed, and Obed became the father of Jesse; 
          13      and Jesse became the father of Eliab his firstborn, then Abinadab the second, Shimea the third, 
          14      Nethanel the fourth, Raddai the fifth, 
          15      Ozem the sixth, David the seventh; 
          16      and their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. And the three sons of Zeruiah were Abshai, Joab and Asahel. 
          17      Abigail bore Amasa, and the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmaelite. 
          18      Now Caleb the son of Hezron had sons by Azubah his wife, and by Jerioth; and these were her sons: Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon. 
          19      When Azubah died, Caleb married Ephrath, who bore him Hur. 
          20      Hur became the father of Uri, and Uri became the father of Bezalel. 
          21      Afterward Hezron went in to the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead, whom he married when he was sixty years old; and she bore him Segub. 
          22      Segub became the father of Jair, who had twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead. 
          23      But Geshur and Aram took the towns of Jair from them, with Kenath and its villages, even sixty cities. All these were the sons of Machir, the father of Gilead. 
          24      After the death of Hezron in Caleb-ephrathah, Abijah, Hezron’s wife, bore him Ashhur the father of Tekoa. 
          25      Now the sons of Jerahmeel the firstborn of Hezron were Ram the firstborn, then Bunah, Oren, Ozem and Ahijah. 
          26      Jerahmeel had another wife, whose name was Atarah; she was the mother of Onam. 
          27      The sons of Ram, the firstborn of Jerahmeel, were Maaz, Jamin and Eker. 
          28      The sons of Onam were Shammai and Jada. And the sons of Shammai were Nadab and Abishur. 
          29      The name of Abishur’s wife was Abihail, and she bore him Ahban and Molid. 
          30      The sons of Nadab were Seled and Appaim, and Seled died without sons. 
          31      The son of Appaim was Ishi. And the son of Ishi was Sheshan. And the son of Sheshan was Ahlai. 
          32      The sons of Jada the brother of Shammai were Jether and Jonathan, and Jether died without sons. 
          33      The sons of Jonathan were Peleth and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel. 
          34      Now Sheshan had no sons, only daughters. And Sheshan had an Egyptian servant whose name was Jarha. 
          35      Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha his servant in marriage, and she bore him Attai. 
          36      Attai became the father of Nathan, and Nathan became the father of Zabad, 
          37      and Zabad became the father of Ephlal, and Ephlal became the father of Obed, 
          38      and Obed became the father of Jehu, and Jehu became the father of Azariah, 
          39      and Azariah became the father of Helez, and Helez became the father of Eleasah, 
          40      and Eleasah became the father of Sismai, and Sismai became the father of Shallum, 
          41      and Shallum became the father of Jekamiah, and Jekamiah became the father of Elishama. 
          42      Now the sons of Caleb, the brother of Jerahmeel, were Mesha his firstborn, who was the father of Ziph; and his son was Mareshah, the father of Hebron. 
          43      The sons of Hebron were Korah and Tappuah and Rekem and Shema. 
          44      Shema became the father of Raham, the father of Jorkeam; and Rekem became the father of Shammai. 
          45      The son of Shammai was Maon, and Maon was the father of Bethzur. 
          46      Ephah, Caleb’s concubine, bore Haran, Moza and Gazez; and Haran became the father of Gazez. 
          47      The sons of Jahdai were Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah and Shaaph. 
          48      Maacah, Caleb’s concubine, bore Sheber and Tirhanah. 
          49      She also bore Shaaph the father of Madmannah, Sheva the father of Machbena and the father of Gibea; and the daughter of Caleb was Achsah. 
          50      These were the sons of Caleb. 
    The sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephrathah, were Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim, 
          51      Salma the father of Bethlehem and Hareph the father of Beth-gader. 
          52      Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim had sons: Haroeh, half of the Manahathites, 
          53      and the families of Kiriath-jearim: the Ithrites, the Puthites, the Shumathites and the Mishraites; from these came the Zorathites and the Eshtaolites. 
          54      The sons of Salma were Bethlehem and the Netophathites, Atroth-beth-joab and half of the Manahathites, the Zorites. 
          55      The families of scribes who lived at Jabez were the Tirathites, the Shimeathites and the Sucathites. Those are the Kenites who came from Hammath, the father of the house of Rechab. 




Chapter 3


Family of David

          1      Now these were the sons of David who were born to him in Hebron: the firstborn was Amnon, by Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; the second was Daniel, by Abigail the Carmelitess; 
          2      the third was Absalom the son of Maacah, the daughter of Talmai king of Geshur; the fourth was Adonijah the son of Haggith; 
          3      the fifth was Shephatiah, by Abital; the sixth was Ithream, by his wife Eglah. 
          4      Six were born to him in Hebron, and there he reigned seven years and six months. And in Jerusalem he reigned thirty-three years. 
          5      These were born to him in Jerusalem: Shimea, Shobab, Nathan and Solomon, four, by Bath-shua the daughter of Ammiel; 
          6      and Ibhar, Elishama, Eliphelet, 
          7      Nogah, Nepheg and Japhia, 
          8      Elishama, Eliada and Eliphelet, nine. 
          9      All these were the sons of David, besides the sons of the concubines; and Tamar was their sister. 
          10      Now Solomon’s son was Rehoboam, Abijah was his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son, 
          11      Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son, 
          12      Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son, 
          13      Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son, 
          14      Amon his son, Josiah his son. 
          15      The sons of Josiah were Johanan the firstborn, and the second was Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum. 
          16      The sons of Jehoiakim were Jeconiah his son, Zedekiah his son. 
          17      The sons of Jeconiah, the prisoner, were Shealtiel his son, 
          18      and Malchiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama and Nedabiah. 
          19      The sons of Pedaiah were Zerubbabel and Shimei. And the sons of Zerubbabel were Meshullam and Hananiah, and Shelomith was their sister; 
          20      and Hashubah, Ohel, Berechiah, Hasadiah and Jushab-hesed, five. 
          21      The sons of Hananiah were Pelatiah and Jeshaiah, the sons of Rephaiah, the sons of Arnan, the sons of Obadiah, the sons of Shecaniah. 
          22      The descendants of Shecaniah were Shemaiah, and the sons of Shemaiah: Hattush, Igal, Bariah, Neariah and Shaphat, six. 
          23      The sons of Neariah were Elioenai, Hizkiah and Azrikam, three. 
          24      The sons of Elioenai were Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah and Anani, seven. 




Chapter 4


Line of Hur, Asher

          1      The sons of Judah were Perez, Hezron, Carmi, Hur and Shobal. 
          2      Reaiah the son of Shobal became the father of Jahath, and Jahath became the father of Ahumai and Lahad. These were the families of the Zorathites. 
          3      These were the sons of Etam: Jezreel, Ishma and Idbash; and the name of their sister was Hazzelelponi. 
          4      Penuel was the father of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah. These were the sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephrathah, the father of Bethlehem. 
          5      Ashhur, the father of Tekoa, had two wives, Helah and Naarah. 
          6      Naarah bore him Ahuzzam, Hepher, Temeni and Haahashtari. These were the sons of Naarah. 
          7      The sons of Helah were Zereth, Izhar and Ethnan. 
          8      Koz became the father of Anub and Zobebah, and the families of Aharhel the son of Harum. 
          9      Jabez was more honorable than his brothers, and his mother named him Jabez saying, “Because I bore him with pain.” 
          10      Now Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, “Oh that You would bless me indeed and enlarge my border, and that Your hand might be with me, and that You would keep me from harm that it may not pain me!” And God granted him what he requested. 
          11      Chelub the brother of Shuhah became the father of Mehir, who was the father of Eshton. 
          12      Eshton became the father of Beth-rapha and Paseah, and Tehinnah the father of Ir-nahash. These are the men of Recah. 
          13      Now the sons of Kenaz were Othniel and Seraiah. And the sons of Othniel were Hathath and Meonothai. 
          14      Meonothai became the father of Ophrah, and Seraiah became the father of Joab the father of Ge-harashim, for they were craftsmen. 
          15      The sons of Caleb the son of Jephunneh were Iru, Elah and Naam; and the son of Elah was Kenaz. 
          16      The sons of Jehallelel were Ziph and Ziphah, Tiria and Asarel. 
          17      The sons of Ezrah were Jether, Mered, Epher and Jalon. (And these are the sons of Bithia the daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered took) and she conceived and bore Miriam, Shammai and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa. 
          18      His Jewish wife bore Jered the father of Gedor, and Heber the father of Soco, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah. 
          19      The sons of the wife of Hodiah, the sister of Naham, were the fathers of Keilah the Garmite and Eshtemoa the Maacathite. 
          20      The sons of Shimon were Amnon and Rinnah, Benhanan and Tilon. And the sons of Ishi were Zoheth and Ben-zoheth. 
          21      The sons of Shelah the son of Judah were Er the father of Lecah and Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the families of the house of the linen workers at Beth-ashbea; 
          22      and Jokim, the men of Cozeba, Joash, Saraph, who ruled in Moab, and Jashubi-lehem. And the records are ancient. 
          23      These were the potters and the inhabitants of Netaim and Gederah; they lived there with the king for his work. 

Descendants of Simeon

          24      The sons of Simeon were Nemuel and Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, Shaul; 
          25      Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son. 
          26      The sons of Mishma were Hammuel his son, Zaccur his son, Shimei his son. 
          27      Now Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters; but his brothers did not have many sons, nor did all their family multiply like the sons of Judah. 
          28      They lived at Beersheba, Moladah and Hazar-shual, 
          29      at Bilhah, Ezem, Tolad, 
          30      Bethuel, Hormah, Ziklag, 
          31      Beth-marcaboth, Hazar-susim, Beth-biri and Shaaraim. These were their cities until the reign of David. 
          32      Their villages were Etam, Ain, Rimmon, Tochen and Ashan, five cities; 
          33      and all their villages that were around the same cities as far as Baal. These were their settlements, and they have their genealogy. 
          34      Meshobab and Jamlech and Joshah the son of Amaziah, 
          35      and Joel and Jehu the son of Joshibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel, 
          36      and Elioenai, Jaakobah, Jeshohaiah, Asaiah, Adiel, Jesimiel, Benaiah, 
          37      Ziza the son of Shiphi, the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of Shemaiah; 
          38      these mentioned by name were leaders in their families; and their fathers’ houses increased greatly. 
          39      They went to the entrance of Gedor, even to the east side of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks. 
          40      They found rich and good pasture, and the land was broad and quiet and peaceful; for those who lived there formerly were Hamites. 
          41      These, recorded by name, came in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and attacked their tents and the Meunites who were found there, and destroyed them utterly to this day, and lived in their place, because there was pasture there for their flocks. 
          42      From them, from the sons of Simeon, five hundred men went to Mount Seir, with Pelatiah, Neariah, Rephaiah and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi, as their leaders. 
          43      They destroyed the remnant of the Amalekites who escaped, and have lived there to this day. 




Chapter 5


Genealogy from Reuben

          1      Now the sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel (for he was the firstborn, but because he defiled his father’s bed, his birthright was given to the sons of Joseph the son of Israel; so that he is not enrolled in the genealogy according to the birthright. 
          2      Though Judah prevailed over his brothers, and from him came the leader, yet the birthright belonged to Joseph), 
          3      the sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel were Hanoch and Pallu, Hezron and Carmi. 
          4      The sons of Joel were Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son, 
          5      Micah his son, Reaiah his son, Baal his son, 
          6      Beerah his son, whom Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria carried away into exile; he was leader of the Reubenites. 
          7      His kinsmen by their families, in the genealogy of their generations, were Jeiel the chief, then Zechariah 
          8      and Bela the son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel, who lived in Aroer, even to Nebo and Baal-meon. 
          9      To the east he settled as far as the entrance of the wilderness from the river Euphrates, because their cattle had increased in the land of Gilead. 
          10      In the days of Saul they made war with the Hagrites, who fell by their hand, so that they occupied their tents throughout all the land east of Gilead. 
          11      Now the sons of Gad lived opposite them in the land of Bashan as far as Salecah. 
          12      Joel was the chief and Shapham the second, then Janai and Shaphat in Bashan. 
          13      Their kinsmen of their fathers’ households were Michael, Meshullam, Sheba, Jorai, Jacan, Zia and Eber, seven. 
          14      These were the sons of Abihail, the son of Huri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, the son of Jeshishai, the son of Jahdo, the son of Buz; 
          15      Ahi the son of Abdiel, the son of Guni, was head of their fathers’ households. 
          16      They lived in Gilead, in Bashan and in its towns, and in all the pasture lands of Sharon, as far as their borders. 
          17      All of these were enrolled in the genealogies in the days of Jotham king of Judah and in the days of Jeroboam king of Israel. 
          18      The sons of Reuben and the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh, consisting of valiant men, men who bore shield and sword and shot with bow and were skillful in battle, were 44,760, who went to war. 
          19      They made war against the Hagrites, Jetur, Naphish and Nodab. 
          20      They were helped against them, and the Hagrites and all who were with them were given into their hand; for they cried out to God in the battle, and He answered their prayers because they trusted in Him. 
          21      They took away their cattle: their 50,000 camels, 250,000 sheep, 2,000 donkeys; and 100,000 men. 
          22      For many fell slain, because the war was of God. And they settled in their place until the exile. 
          23      Now the sons of the half-tribe of Manasseh lived in the land; from Bashan to Baal-hermon and Senir and Mount Hermon they were numerous. 
          24      These were the heads of their fathers’ households, even Epher, Ishi, Eliel, Azriel, Jeremiah, Hodaviah and Jahdiel, mighty men of valor, famous men, heads of their fathers’ households. 
          25      But they acted treacherously against the God of their fathers and played the harlot after the gods of the peoples of the land, whom God had destroyed before them. 
          26      So the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul, king of Assyria, even the spirit of Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria, and he carried them away into exile, namely the Reubenites, the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh, and brought them to Halah, Habor, Hara and to the river of Gozan, to this day. 




Chapter 6


Genealogy: The Priestly Line

          1      The sons of Levi were Gershon, Kohath and Merari. 
          2      The sons of Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel. 
          3      The children of Amram were Aaron, Moses and Miriam. And the sons of Aaron were Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar. 
          4      Eleazar became the father of Phinehas, and Phinehas became the father of Abishua, 
          5      and Abishua became the father of Bukki, and Bukki became the father of Uzzi, 
          6      and Uzzi became the father of Zerahiah, and Zerahiah became the father of Meraioth, 
          7      Meraioth became the father of Amariah, and Amariah became the father of Ahitub, 
          8      and Ahitub became the father of Zadok, and Zadok became the father of Ahimaaz, 
          9      and Ahimaaz became the father of Azariah, and Azariah became the father of Johanan, 
          10      and Johanan became the father of Azariah (it was he who served as the priest in the house which Solomon built in Jerusalem), 
          11      and Azariah became the father of Amariah, and Amariah became the father of Ahitub, 
          12      and Ahitub became the father of Zadok, and Zadok became the father of Shallum, 
          13      and Shallum became the father of Hilkiah, and Hilkiah became the father of Azariah, 
          14      and Azariah became the father of Seraiah, and Seraiah became the father of Jehozadak; 
          15      and Jehozadak went along when the LORD carried Judah and Jerusalem away into exile by Nebuchadnezzar. 
          16      The sons of Levi were Gershom, Kohath and Merari. 
          17      These are the names of the sons of Gershom: Libni and Shimei. 
          18      The sons of Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel. 
          19      The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. And these are the families of the Levites according to their fathers’ households. 
          20      Of Gershom: Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son, 
          21      Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeatherai his son. 
          22      The sons of Kohath were Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son, 
          23      Elkanah his son, Ebiasaph his son and Assir his son, 
          24      Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son and Shaul his son. 
          25      The sons of Elkanah were Amasai and Ahimoth. 
          26      As for Elkanah, the sons of Elkanah were Zophai his son and Nahath his son, 
          27      Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son. 
          28      The sons of Samuel were Joel the firstborn, and Abijah the second. 
          29      The sons of Merari were Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzzah his son, 
          30      Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, Asaiah his son. 
          31      Now these are those whom David appointed over the service of song in the house of the LORD, after the ark rested there. 
          32      They ministered with song before the tabernacle of the tent of meeting, until Solomon had built the house of the LORD in Jerusalem; and they served in their office according to their order. 
          33      These are those who served with their sons: From the sons of the Kohathites were Heman the singer, the son of Joel, the son of Samuel, 
          34      the son of Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Eliel, the son of Toah, 
          35      the son of Zuph, the son of Elkanah, the son of Mahath, the son of Amasai, 
          36      the son of Elkanah, the son of Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah, 
          37      the son of Tahath, the son of Assir, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, 
          38      the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son of Israel. 
          39      Heman’s brother Asaph stood at his right hand, even Asaph the son of Berechiah, the son of Shimea, 
          40      the son of Michael, the son of Baaseiah, the son of Malchijah, 
          41      the son of Ethni, the son of Zerah, the son of Adaiah, 
          42      the son of Ethan, the son of Zimmah, the son of Shimei, 
          43      the son of Jahath, the son of Gershom, the son of Levi. 
          44      On the left hand were their kinsmen the sons of Merari: Ethan the son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch, 
          45      the son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah, 
          46      the son of Amzi, the son of Bani, the son of Shemer, 
          47      the son of Mahli, the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi. 
          48      Their kinsmen the Levites were appointed for all the service of the tabernacle of the house of God. 
          49      But Aaron and his sons offered on the altar of burnt offering and on the altar of incense, for all the work of the most holy place, and to make atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses the servant of God had commanded. 
          50      These are the sons of Aaron: Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son, 
          51      Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son, 
          52      Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son, 
          53      Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son. 
          54      Now these are their settlements according to their camps within their borders. To the sons of Aaron of the families of the Kohathites (for theirs was the first lot), 
          55      to them they gave Hebron in the land of Judah and its pasture lands around it; 
          56      but the fields of the city and its villages, they gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh. 
          57      To the sons of Aaron they gave the following cities of refuge: Hebron, Libnah also with its pasture lands, Jattir, Eshtemoa with its pasture lands, 
          58      Hilen with its pasture lands, Debir with its pasture lands, 
          59      Ashan with its pasture lands and Beth-shemesh with its pasture lands; 
          60      and from the tribe of Benjamin: Geba with its pasture lands, Allemeth with its pasture lands, and Anathoth with its pasture lands. All their cities throughout their families were thirteen cities. 
          61      Then to the rest of the sons of Kohath were given by lot, from the family of the tribe, from the half-tribe, the half of Manasseh, ten cities. 
          62      To the sons of Gershom, according to their families, were given from the tribe of Issachar and from the tribe of Asher, the tribe of Naphtali, and the tribe of Manasseh, thirteen cities in Bashan. 
          63      To the sons of Merari were given by lot, according to their families, from the tribe of Reuben, the tribe of Gad and the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities. 
          64      So the sons of Israel gave to the Levites the cities with their pasture lands. 
          65      They gave by lot from the tribe of the sons of Judah, the tribe of the sons of Simeon and the tribe of the sons of Benjamin, these cities which are mentioned by name. 
          66      Now some of the families of the sons of Kohath had cities of their territory from the tribe of Ephraim. 
          67      They gave to them the following cities of refuge: Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim with its pasture lands, Gezer also with its pasture lands, 
          68      Jokmeam with its pasture lands, Beth-horon with its pasture lands, 
          69      Aijalon with its pasture lands and Gath-rimmon with its pasture lands; 
          70      and from the half-tribe of Manasseh: Aner with its pasture lands and Bileam with its pasture lands, for the rest of the family of the sons of Kohath. 
          71      To the sons of Gershom were given, from the family of the half-tribe of Manasseh: Golan in Bashan with its pasture lands and Ashtaroth with its pasture lands; 
          72      and from the tribe of Issachar: Kedesh with its pasture lands, Daberath with its pasture lands 
          73      and Ramoth with its pasture lands, Anem with its pasture lands; 
          74      and from the tribe of Asher: Mashal with its pasture lands, Abdon with its pasture lands, 
          75      Hukok with its pasture lands and Rehob with its pasture lands; 
          76      and from the tribe of Naphtali: Kedesh in Galilee with its pasture lands, Hammon with its pasture lands and Kiriathaim with its pasture lands. 
          77      To the rest of the Levites, the sons of Merari, were given, from the tribe of Zebulun: Rimmono with its pasture lands, Tabor with its pasture lands; 
          78      and beyond the Jordan at Jericho, on the east side of the Jordan, were given them, from the tribe of Reuben: Bezer in the wilderness with its pasture lands, Jahzah with its pasture lands, 
          79      Kedemoth with its pasture lands and Mephaath with its pasture lands; 
          80      and from the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead with its pasture lands, Mahanaim with its pasture lands, 
          81      Heshbon with its pasture lands and Jazer with its pasture lands. 




Chapter 7


Genealogy from Issachar

          1      Now the sons of Issachar were four: Tola, Puah, Jashub and Shimron. 
          2      The sons of Tola were Uzzi, Rephaiah, Jeriel, Jahmai, Ibsam and Samuel, heads of their fathers’ households. The sons of Tola were mighty men of valor in their generations; their number in the days of David was 22,600. 
          3      The son of Uzzi was Izrahiah. And the sons of Izrahiah were Michael, Obadiah, Joel, Isshiah; all five of them were chief men. 
          4      With them by their generations according to their fathers’ households were 36,000 troops of the army for war, for they had many wives and sons. 
          5      Their relatives among all the families of Issachar were mighty men of valor, enrolled by genealogy, in all 87,000. 

Descendants of Benjamin

          6      The sons of Benjamin were three: Bela and Becher and Jediael. 
          7      The sons of Bela were five: Ezbon, Uzzi, Uzziel, Jerimoth and Iri. They were heads of fathers’ households, mighty men of valor, and were 22,034 enrolled by genealogy. 
          8      The sons of Becher were Zemirah, Joash, Eliezer, Elioenai, Omri, Jeremoth, Abijah, Anathoth and Alemeth. All these were the sons of Becher. 
          9      They were enrolled by genealogy, according to their generations, heads of their fathers’ households, 20,200 mighty men of valor. 
          10      The son of Jediael was Bilhan. And the sons of Bilhan were Jeush, Benjamin, Ehud, Chenaanah, Zethan, Tarshish and Ahishahar. 
          11      All these were sons of Jediael, according to the heads of their fathers’ households, 17,200 mighty men of valor, who were ready to go out with the army to war. 
          12      Shuppim and Huppim were the sons of Ir; Hushim was the son of Aher. 

Sons of Naphtali

          13      The sons of Naphtali were Jahziel, Guni, Jezer, and Shallum, the sons of Bilhah. 

Descendants of Manasseh

          14      The sons of Manasseh were Asriel, whom his Aramean concubine bore; she bore Machir the father of Gilead. 
          15      Machir took a wife for Huppim and Shuppim, whose sister’s name was Maacah. And the name of the second was Zelophehad, and Zelophehad had daughters. 
          16      Maacah the wife of Machir bore a son, and she named him Peresh; and the name of his brother was Sheresh, and his sons were Ulam and Rakem. 
          17      The son of Ulam was Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh. 
          18      His sister Hammolecheth bore Ishhod and Abiezer and Mahlah. 
          19      The sons of Shemida were Ahian and Shechem and Likhi and Aniam. 

Descendants of Ephraim

          20      The sons of Ephraim were Shuthelah and Bered his son, Tahath his son, Eleadah his son, Tahath his son, 
          21      Zabad his son, Shuthelah his son, and Ezer and Elead whom the men of Gath who were born in the land killed, because they came down to take their livestock. 
          22      Their father Ephraim mourned many days, and his relatives came to comfort him. 
          23      Then he went in to his wife, and she conceived and bore a son, and he named him Beriah, because misfortune had come upon his house. 
          24      His daughter was Sheerah, who built lower and upper Beth-horon, also Uzzen-sheerah. 
          25      Rephah was his son along with Resheph, Telah his son, Tahan his son, 
          26      Ladan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son, 
          27      Non his son and Joshua his son. 
          28      Their possessions and settlements were Bethel with its towns, and to the east Naaran, and to the west Gezer with its towns, and Shechem with its towns as far as Ayyah with its towns, 
          29      and along the borders of the sons of Manasseh, Beth-shean with its towns, Taanach with its towns, Megiddo with its towns, Dor with its towns. In these lived the sons of Joseph the son of Israel. 

Descendants of Asher

          30      The sons of Asher were Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi and Beriah, and Serah their sister. 
          31      The sons of Beriah were Heber and Malchiel, who was the father of Birzaith. 
          32      Heber became the father of Japhlet, Shomer and Hotham, and Shua their sister. 
          33      The sons of Japhlet were Pasach, Bimhal and Ashvath. These were the sons of Japhlet. 
          34      The sons of Shemer were Ahi and Rohgah, Jehubbah and Aram. 
          35      The sons of his brother Helem were Zophah, Imna, Shelesh and Amal. 
          36      The sons of Zophah were Suah, Harnepher, Shual, Beri and Imrah, 
          37      Bezer, Hod, Shamma, Shilshah, Ithran and Beera. 
          38      The sons of Jether were Jephunneh, Pispa and Ara. 
          39      The sons of Ulla were Arah, Hanniel and Rizia. 
          40      All these were the sons of Asher, heads of the fathers’ houses, choice and mighty men of valor, heads of the princes. And the number of them enrolled by genealogy for service in war was 26,000 men. 




Chapter 8


Genealogy from Benjamin

          1      And Benjamin became the father of Bela his firstborn, Ashbel the second, Aharah the third, 
          2      Nohah the fourth and Rapha the fifth. 
          3      Bela had sons: Addar, Gera, Abihud, 
          4      Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah, 
          5      Gera, Shephuphan and Huram. 
          6      These are the sons of Ehud: these are the heads of fathers’ households of the inhabitants of Geba, and they carried them into exile to Manahath, 
          7      namely, Naaman, Ahijah and Gera—he carried them into exile; and he became the father of Uzza and Ahihud. 
          8      Shaharaim became the father of children in the country of Moab after he had sent away Hushim and Baara his wives. 
          9      By Hodesh his wife he became the father of Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam, 
          10      Jeuz, Sachia, Mirmah. These were his sons, heads of fathers’ households. 
          11      By Hushim he became the father of Abitub and Elpaal. 
          12      The sons of Elpaal were Eber, Misham, and Shemed, who built Ono and Lod, with its towns; 
          13      and Beriah and Shema, who were heads of fathers’ households of the inhabitants of Aijalon, who put to flight the inhabitants of Gath; 
          14      and Ahio, Shashak and Jeremoth. 
          15      Zebadiah, Arad, Eder, 
          16      Michael, Ishpah and Joha were the sons of Beriah. 
          17      Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Heber, 
          18      Ishmerai, Izliah and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal. 
          19      Jakim, Zichri, Zabdi, 
          20      Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel, 
          21      Adaiah, Beraiah and Shimrath were the sons of Shimei. 
          22      Ishpan, Eber, Eliel, 
          23      Abdon, Zichri, Hanan, 
          24      Hananiah, Elam, Anthothijah, 
          25      Iphdeiah and Penuel were the sons of Shashak. 
          26      Shamsherai, Shehariah, Athaliah, 
          27      Jaareshiah, Elijah and Zichri were the sons of Jeroham. 
          28      These were heads of the fathers’ households according to their generations, chief men who lived in Jerusalem. 
          29      Now in Gibeon, Jeiel, the father of Gibeon lived, and his wife’s name was Maacah; 
          30      and his firstborn son was Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Nadab, 
          31      Gedor, Ahio and Zecher. 
          32      Mikloth became the father of Shimeah. And they also lived with their relatives in Jerusalem opposite their other relatives. 

Genealogy from King Saul

          33      Ner became the father of Kish, and Kish became the father of Saul, and Saul became the father of Jonathan, Malchi-shua, Abinadab and Eshbaal. 
          34      The son of Jonathan was Merib-baal, and Merib-baal became the father of Micah. 
          35      The sons of Micah were Pithon, Melech, Tarea and Ahaz. 
          36      Ahaz became the father of Jehoaddah, and Jehoaddah became the father of Alemeth, Azmaveth and Zimri; and Zimri became the father of Moza. 
          37      Moza became the father of Binea; Raphah was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son. 
          38      Azel had six sons, and these were their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel. 
          39      The sons of Eshek his brother were Ulam his firstborn, Jeush the second and Eliphelet the third. 
          40      The sons of Ulam were mighty men of valor, archers, and had many sons and grandsons, 150 of them. All these were of the sons of Benjamin. 




Chapter 9


People of Jerusalem

          1      So all Israel was enrolled by genealogies; and behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel. And Judah was carried away into exile to Babylon for their unfaithfulness. 
          2      Now the first who lived in their possessions in their cities were Israel, the priests, the Levites and the temple servants. 
          3      Some of the sons of Judah, of the sons of Benjamin and of the sons of Ephraim and Manasseh lived in Jerusalem: 
          4      Uthai the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, from the sons of Perez the son of Judah. 
          5      From the Shilonites were Asaiah the firstborn and his sons. 
          6      From the sons of Zerah were Jeuel and their relatives, 690 of them. 
          7      From the sons of Benjamin were Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hassenuah, 
          8      and Ibneiah the son of Jeroham, and Elah the son of Uzzi, the son of Michri, and Meshullam the son of Shephatiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah; 
          9      and their relatives according to their generations, 956. All these were heads of fathers’ households according to their fathers’ houses. 
          10      From the priests were Jedaiah, Jehoiarib, Jachin, 
          11      and Azariah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the chief officer of the house of God; 
          12      and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah, and Maasai the son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer; 
          13      and their relatives, heads of their fathers’ households, 1,760 very able men for the work of the service of the house of God. 
          14      Of the Levites were Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari; 
          15      and Bakbakkar, Heresh and Galal and Mattaniah the son of Mica, the son of Zichri, the son of Asaph, 
          16      and Obadiah the son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun, and Berechiah the son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, who lived in the villages of the Netophathites. 
          17      Now the gatekeepers were Shallum and Akkub and Talmon and Ahiman and their relatives (Shallum the chief 
          18      being stationed until now at the king’s gate to the east). These were the gatekeepers for the camp of the sons of Levi. 
          19      Shallum the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, and his relatives of his father’s house, the Korahites, were over the work of the service, keepers of the thresholds of the tent; and their fathers had been over the camp of the LORD, keepers of the entrance. 
          20      Phinehas the son of Eleazar was ruler over them previously, and the LORD was with him. 
          21      Zechariah the son of Meshelemiah was gatekeeper of the entrance of the tent of meeting. 
          22      All these who were chosen to be gatekeepers at the thresholds were 212. These were enrolled by genealogy in their villages, whom David and Samuel the seer appointed in their office of trust. 
          23      So they and their sons had charge of the gates of the house of the LORD, even the house of the tent, as guards. 
          24      The gatekeepers were on the four sides, to the east, west, north and south. 
          25      Their relatives in their villages were to come in every seven days from time to time to be with them; 
          26      for the four chief gatekeepers who were Levites, were in an office of trust, and were over the chambers and over the treasuries in the house of God. 
          27      They spent the night around the house of God, because the watch was committed to them; and they were in charge of opening it morning by morning. 
          28      Now some of them had charge of the utensils of service, for they counted them when they brought them in and when they took them out. 
          29      Some of them also were appointed over the furniture and over all the utensils of the sanctuary and over the fine flour and the wine and the oil and the frankincense and the spices. 
          30      Some of the sons of the priests prepared the mixing of the spices. 
          31      Mattithiah, one of the Levites, who was the firstborn of Shallum the Korahite, had the responsibility over the things which were baked in pans. 
          32      Some of their relatives of the sons of the Kohathites were over the showbread to prepare it every sabbath. 
          33      Now these are the singers, heads of fathers’ households of the Levites, who lived in the chambers of the temple free from other service; for they were engaged in their work day and night. 
          34      These were heads of fathers’ households of the Levites according to their generations, chief men, who lived in Jerusalem. 

Ancestry and Descendants of Saul

          35      In Gibeon Jeiel the father of Gibeon lived, and his wife’s name was Maacah, 
          36      and his firstborn son was Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab, 
          37      Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah and Mikloth. 
          38      Mikloth became the father of Shimeam. And they also lived with their relatives in Jerusalem opposite their other relatives. 
          39      Ner became the father of Kish, and Kish became the father of Saul, and Saul became the father of Jonathan, Malchi-shua, Abinadab and Eshbaal. 
          40      The son of Jonathan was Merib-baal; and Merib-baal became the father of Micah. 
          41      The sons of Micah were Pithon, Melech, Tahrea and Ahaz. 
          42      Ahaz became the father of Jarah, and Jarah became the father of Alemeth, Azmaveth and Zimri; and Zimri became the father of Moza, 
          43      and Moza became the father of Binea and Rephaiah his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son. 
          44      Azel had six sons whose names are these: Azrikam, Bocheru and Ishmael and Sheariah and Obadiah and Hanan. These were the sons of Azel. 




Chapter 10


Defeat and Death of Saul and His Sons

          1      Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled before the Philistines and fell slain on Mount Gilboa. 
          2      The Philistines closely pursued Saul and his sons, and the Philistines struck down Jonathan, Abinadab and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul. 
          3      The battle became heavy against Saul, and the archers overtook him; and he was wounded by the archers. 
          4      Then Saul said to his armor bearer, “Draw your sword and thrust me through with it, otherwise these uncircumcised will come and abuse me.” But his armor bearer would not, for he was greatly afraid. Therefore Saul took his sword and fell on it. 
          5      When his armor bearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell on his sword and died. 
          6      Thus Saul died with his three sons, and all those of his house died together. 
          7      When all the men of Israel who were in the valley saw that they had fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook their cities and fled; and the Philistines came and lived in them. 
          8      It came about the next day, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his sons fallen on Mount Gilboa. 
          9      So they stripped him and took his head and his armor and sent messengers around the land of the Philistines to carry the good news to their idols and to the people. 
          10      They put his armor in the house of their gods and fastened his head in the house of Dagon. 

Jabesh-gilead’s Tribute to Saul

          11      When all Jabesh-gilead heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul, 
          12      all the valiant men arose and took away the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons and brought them to Jabesh, and they buried their bones under the oak in Jabesh, and fasted seven days. 
          13      So Saul died for his trespass which he committed against the LORD, because of the word of the LORD which he did not keep; and also because he asked counsel of a medium, making inquiry of it, 
          14      and did not inquire of the LORD. Therefore He killed him and turned the kingdom to David the son of Jesse. 




Chapter 11


David Made King over All Israel

          1      Then all Israel gathered to David at Hebron and said, “Behold, we are your bone and your flesh. 
          2      “In times past, even when Saul was king, you were the one who led out and brought in Israel; and the LORD your God said to you, ‘You shall shepherd My people Israel, and you shall be prince over My people Israel.’ ” 
          3      So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and David made a covenant with them in Hebron before the LORD; and they anointed David king over Israel, according to the word of the LORD through Samuel. 

Jerusalem, Capital City

          4      Then David and all Israel went to Jerusalem (that is, Jebus); and the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, were there. 
          5      The inhabitants of Jebus said to David, “You shall not enter here.” Nevertheless David captured the stronghold of Zion (that is, the city of David). 
          6      Now David had said, “Whoever strikes down a Jebusite first shall be chief and commander.” Joab the son of Zeruiah went up first, so he became chief. 
          7      Then David dwelt in the stronghold; therefore it was called the city of David. 
          8      He built the city all around, from the Millo even to the surrounding area; and Joab repaired the rest of the city. 
          9      David became greater and greater, for the LORD of hosts was with him. 

David’s Mighty Men

          10      Now these are the heads of the mighty men whom David had, who gave him strong support in his kingdom, together with all Israel, to make him king, according to the word of the LORD concerning Israel. 
          11      These constitute the list of the mighty men whom David had: Jashobeam, the son of a Hachmonite, the chief of the thirty; he lifted up his spear against three hundred whom he killed at one time. 
          12      After him was Eleazar the son of Dodo, the Ahohite, who was one of the three mighty men. 
          13      He was with David at Pasdammim when the Philistines were gathered together there to battle, and there was a plot of ground full of barley; and the people fled before the Philistines. 
          14      They took their stand in the midst of the plot and defended it, and struck down the Philistines; and the LORD saved them by a great victory. 
          15      Now three of the thirty chief men went down to the rock to David, into the cave of Adullam, while the army of the Philistines was camping in the valley of Rephaim. 
          16      David was then in the stronghold, while the garrison of the Philistines was then in Bethlehem. 
          17      David had a craving and said, “Oh that someone would give me water to drink from the well of Bethlehem, which is by the gate!” 
          18      So the three broke through the camp of the Philistines and drew water from the well of Bethlehem which was by the gate, and took it and brought it to David; nevertheless David would not drink it, but poured it out to the LORD; 
          19      and he said, “Be it far from me before my God that I should do this. Shall I drink the blood of these men who went at the risk of their lives? For at the risk of their lives they brought it.” Therefore he would not drink it. These things the three mighty men did. 
          20      As for Abshai the brother of Joab, he was chief of the thirty, and he swung his spear against three hundred and killed them; and he had a name as well as the thirty. 
          21      Of the three in the second rank he was the most honored and became their commander; however, he did not attain to the first three. 
          22      Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man of Kabzeel, mighty in deeds, struck down the two sons of Ariel of Moab. He also went down and killed a lion inside a pit on a snowy day. 
          23      He killed an Egyptian, a man of great stature five cubits tall. Now in the Egyptian’s hand was a spear like a weaver’s beam, but he went down to him with a club and snatched the spear from the Egyptian’s hand and killed him with his own spear. 
          24      These things Benaiah the son of Jehoiada did, and had a name as well as the three mighty men. 
          25      Behold, he was honored among the thirty, but he did not attain to the three; and David appointed him over his guard. 
          26      Now the mighty men of the armies were Asahel the brother of Joab, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem, 
          27      Shammoth the Harorite, Helez the Pelonite, 
          28      Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, Abiezer the Anathothite, 
          29      Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite, 
          30      Maharai the Netophathite, Heled the son of Baanah the Netophathite, 
          31      Ithai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the sons of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite, 
          32      Hurai of the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite, 
          33      Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite, 
          34      the sons of Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan the son of Shagee the Hararite, 
          35      Ahiam the son of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal the son of Ur, 
          36      Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite, 
          37      Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai the son of Ezbai, 
          38      Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son of Hagri, 
          39      Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite, the armor bearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah, 
          40      Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite, 
          41      Uriah the Hittite, Zabad the son of Ahlai, 
          42      Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a chief of the Reubenites, and thirty with him, 
          43      Hanan the son of Maacah and Joshaphat the Mithnite, 
          44      Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jeiel the sons of Hotham the Aroerite, 
          45      Jediael the son of Shimri and Joha his brother, the Tizite, 
          46      Eliel the Mahavite and Jeribai and Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite, 
          47      Eliel and Obed and Jaasiel the Mezobaite. 




Chapter 12


David’s Supporters in Ziklag

          1      Now these are the ones who came to David at Ziklag, while he was still restricted because of Saul the son of Kish; and they were among the mighty men who helped him in war. 
          2      They were equipped with bows, using both the right hand and the left to sling stones and to shoot arrows from the bow; they were Saul’s kinsmen from Benjamin. 
          3      The chief was Ahiezer, then Joash, the sons of Shemaah the Gibeathite; and Jeziel and Pelet, the sons of Azmaveth, and Beracah and Jehu the Anathothite, 
          4      and Ishmaiah the Gibeonite, a mighty man among the thirty, and over the thirty. Then Jeremiah, Jahaziel, Johanan, Jozabad the Gederathite, 
          5      Eluzai, Jerimoth, Bealiah, Shemariah, Shephatiah the Haruphite, 
          6      Elkanah, Isshiah, Azarel, Joezer, Jashobeam, the Korahites, 
          7      and Joelah and Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham of Gedor. 
          8      From the Gadites there came over to David in the stronghold in the wilderness, mighty men of valor, men trained for war, who could handle shield and spear, and whose faces were like the faces of lions, and they were as swift as the gazelles on the mountains. 
          9      Ezer was the first, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third, 
          10      Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth, 
          11      Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh, 
          12      Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth, 
          13      Jeremiah the tenth, Machbannai the eleventh. 
          14      These of the sons of Gad were captains of the army; he who was least was equal to a hundred and the greatest to a thousand. 
          15      These are the ones who crossed the Jordan in the first month when it was overflowing all its banks and they put to flight all those in the valleys, both to the east and to the west. 
          16      Then some of the sons of Benjamin and Judah came to the stronghold to David. 
          17      David went out to meet them, and said to them, “If you come peacefully to me to help me, my heart shall be united with you; but if to betray me to my adversaries, since there is no wrong in my hands, may the God of our fathers look on it and decide.” 
          18      Then the Spirit came upon Amasai, who was the chief of the thirty, and he said, 
         “We are yours, O David, 
         And with you, O son of Jesse! 
         Peace, peace to you, 
         And peace to him who helps you; 
         Indeed, your God helps you!” 
    Then David received them and made them captains of the band. 
          19      From Manasseh also some defected to David when he was about to go to battle with the Philistines against Saul. But they did not help them, for the lords of the Philistines after consultation sent him away, saying, “At the cost of our heads he may defect to his master Saul.” 
          20      As he went to Ziklag there defected to him from Manasseh: Adnah, Jozabad, Jediael, Michael, Jozabad, Elihu and Zillethai, captains of thousands who belonged to Manasseh. 
          21      They helped David against the band of raiders, for they were all mighty men of valor, and were captains in the army. 
          22      For day by day men came to David to help him, until there was a great army like the army of God. 

Supporters Gathered at Hebron

          23      Now these are the numbers of the divisions equipped for war, who came to David at Hebron, to turn the kingdom of Saul to him, according to the word of the LORD. 
          24      The sons of Judah who bore shield and spear were 6,800, equipped for war. 
          25      Of the sons of Simeon, mighty men of valor for war, 7,100. 
          26      Of the sons of Levi 4,600. 
          27      Now Jehoiada was the leader of the house of Aaron, and with him were 3,700, 
          28      also Zadok, a young man mighty of valor, and of his father’s house twenty-two captains. 
          29      Of the sons of Benjamin, Saul’s kinsmen, 3,000; for until now the greatest part of them had kept their allegiance to the house of Saul. 
          30      Of the sons of Ephraim 20,800, mighty men of valor, famous men in their fathers’ households. 
          31      Of the half-tribe of Manasseh 18,000, who were designated by name to come and make David king. 
          32      Of the sons of Issachar, men who understood the times, with knowledge of what Israel should do, their chiefs were two hundred; and all their kinsmen were at their command. 
          33      Of Zebulun, there were 50,000 who went out in the army, who could draw up in battle formation with all kinds of weapons of war and helped David with an undivided heart. 
          34      Of Naphtali there were 1,000 captains, and with them 37,000 with shield and spear. 
          35      Of the Danites who could draw up in battle formation, there were 28,600. 
          36      Of Asher there were 40,000 who went out in the army to draw up in battle formation. 
          37      From the other side of the Jordan, of the Reubenites and the Gadites and of the half-tribe of Manasseh, there were 120,000 with all kinds of weapons of war for the battle. 
          38      All these, being men of war who could draw up in battle formation, came to Hebron with a perfect heart to make David king over all Israel; and all the rest also of Israel were of one mind to make David king. 
          39      They were there with David three days, eating and drinking, for their kinsmen had prepared for them. 
          40      Moreover those who were near to them, even as far as Issachar and Zebulun and Naphtali, brought food on donkeys, camels, mules and on oxen, great quantities of flour cakes, fig cakes and bunches of raisins, wine, oil, oxen and sheep. There was joy indeed in Israel. 




Chapter 13


Peril in Transporting the Ark

          1      Then David consulted with the captains of the thousands and the hundreds, even with every leader. 
          2      David said to all the assembly of Israel, “If it seems good to you, and if it is from the LORD our God, let us send everywhere to our kinsmen who remain in all the land of Israel, also to the priests and Levites who are with them in their cities with pasture lands, that they may meet with us; 
          3      and let us bring back the ark of our God to us, for we did not seek it in the days of Saul.” 
          4      Then all the assembly said that they would do so, for the thing was right in the eyes of all the people. 
          5      So David assembled all Israel together, from the Shihor of Egypt even to the entrance of Hamath, to bring the ark of God from Kiriath-jearim. 
          6      David and all Israel went up to Baalah, that is, to Kiriath-jearim, which belongs to Judah, to bring up from there the ark of God, the LORD who is enthroned above the cherubim, where His name is called. 
          7      They carried the ark of God on a new cart from the house of Abinadab, and Uzza and Ahio drove the cart. 
          8      David and all Israel were celebrating before God with all their might, even with songs and with lyres, harps, tambourines, cymbals and with trumpets. 
          9      When they came to the threshing floor of Chidon, Uzza put out his hand to hold the ark, because the oxen nearly upset it. 
          10      The anger of the LORD burned against Uzza, so He struck him down because he put out his hand to the ark; and he died there before God. 
          11      Then David became angry because of the LORD’S outburst against Uzza; and he called that place Perez-uzza to this day. 
          12      David was afraid of God that day, saying, “How can I bring the ark of God home to me?” 
          13      So David did not take the ark with him to the city of David, but took it aside to the house of Obed-edom the Gittite. 
          14      Thus the ark of God remained with the family of Obed-edom in his house three months; and the LORD blessed the family of Obed-edom with all that he had. 




Chapter 14


David’s Family Enlarged

          1      Now Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David with cedar trees, masons and carpenters, to build a house for him. 
          2      And David realized that the LORD had established him as king over Israel, and that his kingdom was highly exalted, for the sake of His people Israel. 
          3      Then David took more wives at Jerusalem, and David became the father of more sons and daughters. 
          4      These are the names of the children born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon, 
          5      Ibhar, Elishua, Elpelet, 
          6      Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia, 
          7      Elishama, Beeliada and Eliphelet. 

Philistines Defeated

          8      When the Philistines heard that David had been anointed king over all Israel, all the Philistines went up in search of David; and David heard of it and went out against them. 
          9      Now the Philistines had come and made a raid in the valley of Rephaim. 
          10      David inquired of God, saying, “Shall I go up against the Philistines? And will You give them into my hand?” Then the LORD said to him, “Go up, for I will give them into your hand.” 
          11      So they came up to Baal-perazim, and David defeated them there; and David said, “God has broken through my enemies by my hand, like the breakthrough of waters.” Therefore they named that place Baal-perazim. 
          12      They abandoned their gods there; so David gave the order and they were burned with fire. 
          13      The Philistines made yet another raid in the valley. 
          14      David inquired again of God, and God said to him, “You shall not go up after them; circle around behind them and come at them in front of the balsam trees. 
          15      “It shall be when you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the balsam trees, then you shall go out to battle, for God will have gone out before you to strike the army of the Philistines.” 
          16      David did just as God had commanded him, and they struck down the army of the Philistines from Gibeon even as far as Gezer. 
          17      Then the fame of David went out into all the lands; and the LORD brought the fear of him on all the nations. 




Chapter 15


Plans to Move the Ark to Jerusalem

          1      Now David built houses for himself in the city of David; and he prepared a place for the ark of God and pitched a tent for it. 
          2      Then David said, “No one is to carry the ark of God but the Levites; for the LORD chose them to carry the ark of God and to minister to Him forever.” 
          3      And David assembled all Israel at Jerusalem to bring up the ark of the LORD to its place which he had prepared for it. 
          4      David gathered together the sons of Aaron and the Levites: 
          5      of the sons of Kohath, Uriel the chief, and 120 of his relatives; 
          6      of the sons of Merari, Asaiah the chief, and 220 of his relatives; 
          7      of the sons of Gershom, Joel the chief, and 130 of his relatives; 
          8      of the sons of Elizaphan, Shemaiah the chief, and 200 of his relatives; 
          9      of the sons of Hebron, Eliel the chief, and 80 of his relatives; 
          10      of the sons of Uzziel, Amminadab the chief, and 112 of his relatives. 
          11      Then David called for Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and for the Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel and Amminadab, 
          12      and said to them, “You are the heads of the fathers’ households of the Levites; consecrate yourselves both you and your relatives, that you may bring up the ark of the LORD God of Israel to the place that I have prepared for it. 
          13      “Because you did not carry it at the first, the LORD our God made an outburst on us, for we did not seek Him according to the ordinance.” 
          14      So the priests and the Levites consecrated themselves to bring up the ark of the LORD God of Israel. 
          15      The sons of the Levites carried the ark of God on their shoulders with the poles thereon, as Moses had commanded according to the word of the LORD. 
          16      Then David spoke to the chiefs of the Levites to appoint their relatives the singers, with instruments of music, harps, lyres, loud-sounding cymbals, to raise sounds of joy. 
          17      So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel, and from his relatives, Asaph the son of Berechiah; and from the sons of Merari their relatives, Ethan the son of Kushaiah, 
          18      and with them their relatives of the second rank, Zechariah, Ben, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-edom and Jeiel, the gatekeepers. 
          19      So the singers, Heman, Asaph and Ethan were appointed to sound aloud cymbals of bronze; 
          20      and Zechariah, Aziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Maaseiah and Benaiah, with harps tuned to alamoth; 
          21      and Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, Obed-edom, Jeiel and Azaziah, to lead with lyres tuned to the sheminith. 
          22      Chenaniah, chief of the Levites, was in charge of the singing; he gave instruction in singing because he was skillful. 
          23      Berechiah and Elkanah were gatekeepers for the ark. 
          24      Shebaniah, Joshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah and Eliezer, the priests, blew the trumpets before the ark of God. Obed-edom and Jehiah also were gatekeepers for the ark. 
          25      So it was David, with the elders of Israel and the captains over thousands, who went to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD from the house of Obed-edom with joy. 
          26      Because God was helping the Levites who were carrying the ark of the covenant of the LORD, they sacrificed seven bulls and seven rams. 
          27      Now David was clothed with a robe of fine linen with all the Levites who were carrying the ark, and the singers and Chenaniah the leader of the singing with the singers. David also wore an ephod of linen. 
          28      Thus all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the LORD with shouting, and with sound of the horn, with trumpets, with loud-sounding cymbals, with harps and lyres. 
          29      It happened when the ark of the covenant of the LORD came to the city of David, that Michal the daughter of Saul looked out of the window and saw King David leaping and celebrating; and she despised him in her heart. 




Chapter 16


A Tent for the Ark

          1      And they brought in the ark of God and placed it inside the tent which David had pitched for it, and they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before God. 
          2      When David had finished offering the burnt offering and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD. 
          3      He distributed to everyone of Israel, both man and woman, to everyone a loaf of bread and a portion of meat and a raisin cake. 
          4      He appointed some of the Levites as ministers before the ark of the LORD, even to celebrate and to thank and praise the LORD God of Israel: 
          5      Asaph the chief, and second to him Zechariah, then Jeiel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-edom and Jeiel, with musical instruments, harps, lyres; also Asaph played loud-sounding cymbals, 
          6      and Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests blew trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God. 
          7      Then on that day David first assigned Asaph and his relatives to give thanks to the LORD. 

Psalm of Thanksgiving

               8      Oh give thanks to the LORD, call upon His name; 
         Make known His deeds among the peoples. 
               9      Sing to Him, sing praises to Him; 
         Speak of all His wonders. 
               10      Glory in His holy name; 
         Let the heart of those who seek the LORD be glad. 
               11      Seek the LORD and His strength; 
         Seek His face continually. 
               12      Remember His wonderful deeds which He has done, 
         His marvels and the judgments from His mouth, 
               13      O seed of Israel His servant, 
         Sons of Jacob, His chosen ones! 
               14      He is the LORD our God; 
         His judgments are in all the earth. 
               15      Remember His covenant forever, 
         The word which He commanded to a thousand generations, 
               16      The covenant which He made with Abraham, 
         And His oath to Isaac. 
               17      He also confirmed it to Jacob for a statute, 
         To Israel as an everlasting covenant, 
               18      Saying, “To you I will give the land of Canaan, 
         As the portion of your inheritance.” 
               19      When they were only a few in number, 
         Very few, and strangers in it, 
               20      And they wandered about from nation to nation, 
         And from one kingdom to another people, 
               21      He permitted no man to oppress them, 
         And He reproved kings for their sakes, saying, 
               22      “Do not touch My anointed ones, 
         And do My prophets no harm.” 
               23      Sing to the LORD, all the earth; 
         Proclaim good tidings of His salvation from day to day. 
               24      Tell of His glory among the nations, 
         His wonderful deeds among all the peoples. 
               25      For great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised; 
         He also is to be feared above all gods. 
               26      For all the gods of the peoples are idols, 
         But the LORD made the heavens. 
               27      Splendor and majesty are before Him, 
         Strength and joy are in His place. 
               28      Ascribe to the LORD, O families of the peoples, 
         Ascribe to the LORD glory and strength. 
               29      Ascribe to the LORD the glory due His name; 
         Bring an offering, and come before Him; 
         Worship the LORD in holy array. 
               30      Tremble before Him, all the earth; 
         Indeed, the world is firmly established, it will not be moved. 
               31      Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice; 
         And let them say among the nations, “The LORD reigns.” 
               32      Let the sea roar, and all it contains; 
         Let the field exult, and all that is in it. 
               33      Then the trees of the forest will sing for joy before the LORD; 
         For He is coming to judge the earth. 
               34      O give thanks to the LORD, for He is good; 
         For His lovingkindness is everlasting. 
               35      Then say, “Save us, O God of our salvation, 
         And gather us and deliver us from the nations, 
         To give thanks to Your holy name, 
         And glory in Your praise.” 
               36      Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, 
         From everlasting even to everlasting. 
    Then all the people said, “Amen,” and praised the LORD. 

Worship before the Ark

          37      So he left Asaph and his relatives there before the ark of the covenant of the LORD to minister before the ark continually, as every day’s work required; 
          38      and Obed-edom with his 68 relatives; Obed-edom, also the son of Jeduthun, and Hosah as gatekeepers. 
          39      He left Zadok the priest and his relatives the priests before the tabernacle of the LORD in the high place which was at Gibeon, 
          40      to offer burnt offerings to the LORD on the altar of burnt offering continually morning and evening, even according to all that is written in the law of the LORD, which He commanded Israel. 
          41      With them were Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest who were chosen, who were designated by name, to give thanks to the LORD, because His lovingkindness is everlasting. 
          42      And with them were Heman and Jeduthun with trumpets and cymbals for those who should sound aloud, and with instruments for the songs of God, and the sons of Jeduthun for the gate. 
          43      Then all the people departed each to his house, and David returned to bless his household. 




Chapter 17


God’s Covenant with David

          1      And it came about, when David dwelt in his house, that David said to Nathan the prophet, “Behold, I am dwelling in a house of cedar, but the ark of the covenant of the LORD is under curtains.” 
          2      Then Nathan said to David, “Do all that is in your heart, for God is with you.” 
          3      It came about the same night that the word of God came to Nathan, saying, 
          4      “Go and tell David My servant, ‘Thus says the LORD, “You shall not build a house for Me to dwell in; 
          5      for I have not dwelt in a house since the day that I brought up Israel to this day, but I have gone from tent to tent and from one dwelling place to another. 
          6      “In all places where I have walked with all Israel, have I spoken a word with any of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to shepherd My people, saying, ‘Why have you not built for Me a house of cedar?’ ” ’ 
          7      “Now, therefore, thus shall you say to My servant David, ‘Thus says the LORD of hosts, “I took you from the pasture, from following the sheep, to be leader over My people Israel. 
          8      “I have been with you wherever you have gone, and have cut off all your enemies from before you; and I will make you a name like the name of the great ones who are in the earth. 
          9      “I will appoint a place for My people Israel, and will plant them, so that they may dwell in their own place and not be moved again; and the wicked will not waste them anymore as formerly, 
          10      even from the day that I commanded judges to be over My people Israel. And I will subdue all your enemies. 
    Moreover, I tell you that the LORD will build a house for you. 
          11      “When your days are fulfilled that you must go to be with your fathers, that I will set up one of your descendants after you, who will be of your sons; and I will establish his kingdom. 
          12      “He shall build for Me a house, and I will establish his throne forever. 
          13      “I will be his father and he shall be My son; and I will not take My lovingkindness away from him, as I took it from him who was before you. 
          14      “But I will settle him in My house and in My kingdom forever, and his throne shall be established forever.” ’ ” 
          15      According to all these words and according to all this vision, so Nathan spoke to David. 

David’s Prayer in Response

          16      Then David the king went in and sat before the LORD and said, “Who am I, O LORD God, and what is my house that You have brought me this far? 
          17      “This was a small thing in Your eyes, O God; but You have spoken of Your servant’s house for a great while to come, and have regarded me according to the standard of a man of high degree, O LORD God. 
          18      “What more can David still say to You concerning the honor bestowed on Your servant? For You know Your servant. 
          19      “O LORD, for Your servant’s sake, and according to Your own heart, You have wrought all this greatness, to make known all these great things. 
          20      “O LORD, there is none like You, nor is there any God besides You, according to all that we have heard with our ears. 
          21      “And what one nation in the earth is like Your people Israel, whom God went to redeem for Himself as a people, to make You a name by great and terrible things, in driving out nations from before Your people, whom You redeemed out of Egypt? 
          22      “For Your people Israel You made Your own people forever, and You, O LORD, became their God. 
          23      “Now, O LORD, let the word that You have spoken concerning Your servant and concerning his house be established forever, and do as You have spoken. 
          24      “Let Your name be established and magnified forever, saying, ‘The LORD of hosts is the God of Israel, even a God to Israel; and the house of David Your servant is established before You.’ 
          25      “For You, O my God, have revealed to Your servant that You will build for him a house; therefore Your servant has found courage to pray before You. 
          26      “Now, O LORD, You are God, and have promised this good thing to Your servant. 
          27      “And now it has pleased You to bless the house of Your servant, that it may continue forever before You; for You, O LORD, have blessed, and it is blessed forever.” 




Chapter 18


David’s Kingdom Strengthened

          1      Now after this it came about that David defeated the Philistines and subdued them and took Gath and its towns from the hand of the Philistines. 
          2      He defeated Moab, and the Moabites became servants to David, bringing tribute. 
          3      David also defeated Hadadezer king of Zobah as far as Hamath, as he went to establish his rule to the Euphrates River. 
          4      David took from him 1,000 chariots and 7,000 horsemen and 20,000 foot soldiers, and David hamstrung all the chariot horses, but reserved enough of them for 100 chariots. 
          5      When the Arameans of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David killed 22,000 men of the Arameans. 
          6      Then David put garrisons among the Arameans of Damascus; and the Arameans became servants to David, bringing tribute. And the LORD helped David wherever he went. 
          7      David took the shields of gold which were carried by the servants of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem. 
          8      Also from Tibhath and from Cun, cities of Hadadezer, David took a very large amount of bronze, with which Solomon made the bronze sea and the pillars and the bronze utensils. 
          9      Now when Tou king of Hamath heard that David had defeated all the army of Hadadezer king of Zobah, 
          10      he sent Hadoram his son to King David to greet him and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and had defeated him; for Hadadezer had been at war with Tou. And Hadoram brought all kinds of articles of gold and silver and bronze. 
          11      King David also dedicated these to the LORD with the silver and the gold which he had carried away from all the nations: from Edom, Moab, the sons of Ammon, the Philistines, and from Amalek. 
          12      Moreover Abishai the son of Zeruiah defeated 18,000 Edomites in the Valley of Salt. 
          13      Then he put garrisons in Edom, and all the Edomites became servants to David. And the LORD helped David wherever he went. 
          14      So David reigned over all Israel; and he administered justice and righteousness for all his people. 
          15      Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army, and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder; 
          16      and Zadok the son of Ahitub and Abimelech the son of Abiathar were priests, and Shavsha was secretary; 
          17      and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and the sons of David were chiefs at the king’s side. 




Chapter 19


David’s Messengers Abused

          1      Now it came about after this, that Nahash the king of the sons of Ammon died, and his son became king in his place. 
          2      Then David said, “I will show kindness to Hanun the son of Nahash, because his father showed kindness to me.” So David sent messengers to console him concerning his father. And David’s servants came into the land of the sons of Ammon to Hanun to console him. 
          3      But the princes of the sons of Ammon said to Hanun, “Do you think that David is honoring your father, in that he has sent comforters to you? Have not his servants come to you to search and to overthrow and to spy out the land?” 
          4      So Hanun took David’s servants and shaved them and cut off their garments in the middle as far as their hips, and sent them away. 
          5      Then certain persons went and told David about the men. And he sent to meet them, for the men were greatly humiliated. And the king said, “Stay at Jericho until your beards grow, and then return.” 
          6      When the sons of Ammon saw that they had made themselves odious to David, Hanun and the sons of Ammon sent 1,000 talents of silver to hire for themselves chariots and horsemen from Mesopotamia, from Aram-maacah and from Zobah. 
          7      So they hired for themselves 32,000 chariots, and the king of Maacah and his people, who came and camped before Medeba. And the sons of Ammon gathered together from their cities and came to battle. 
          8      When David heard of it, he sent Joab and all the army, the mighty men. 
          9      The sons of Ammon came out and drew up in battle array at the entrance of the city, and the kings who had come were by themselves in the field. 

Ammon and Aram Defeated

          10      Now when Joab saw that the battle was set against him in front and in the rear, he selected from all the choice men of Israel and they arrayed themselves against the Arameans. 
          11      But the remainder of the people he placed in the hand of Abshai his brother; and they arrayed themselves against the sons of Ammon. 
          12      He said, “If the Arameans are too strong for me, then you shall help me; but if the sons of Ammon are too strong for you, then I will help you. 
          13      “Be strong, and let us show ourselves courageous for the sake of our people and for the cities of our God; and may the LORD do what is good in His sight.” 
          14      So Joab and the people who were with him drew near to the battle against the Arameans, and they fled before him. 
          15      When the sons of Ammon saw that the Arameans fled, they also fled before Abshai his brother and entered the city. Then Joab came to Jerusalem. 
          16      When the Arameans saw that they had been defeated by Israel, they sent messengers and brought out the Arameans who were beyond the River, with Shophach the commander of the army of Hadadezer leading them. 
          17      When it was told David, he gathered all Israel together and crossed the Jordan, and came upon them and drew up in formation against them. And when David drew up in battle array against the Arameans, they fought against him. 
          18      The Arameans fled before Israel, and David killed of the Arameans 7,000 charioteers and 40,000 foot soldiers, and put to death Shophach the commander of the army. 
          19      So when the servants of Hadadezer saw that they were defeated by Israel, they made peace with David and served him. Thus the Arameans were not willing to help the sons of Ammon anymore. 




Chapter 20


War with Philistine Giants

          1      Then it happened in the spring, at the time when kings go out to battle, that Joab led out the army and ravaged the land of the sons of Ammon, and came and besieged Rabbah. But David stayed at Jerusalem. And Joab struck Rabbah and overthrew it. 
          2      David took the crown of their king from his head, and he found it to weigh a talent of gold, and there was a precious stone in it; and it was placed on David’s head. And he brought out the spoil of the city, a very great amount. 
          3      He brought out the people who were in it, and cut them with saws and with sharp instruments and with axes. And thus David did to all the cities of the sons of Ammon. Then David and all the people returned to Jerusalem. 
          4      Now it came about after this, that war broke out at Gezer with the Philistines; then Sibbecai the Hushathite killed Sippai, one of the descendants of the giants, and they were subdued. 
          5      And there was war with the Philistines again, and Elhanan the son of Jair killed Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, the shaft of whose spear was like a weaver’s beam. 
          6      Again there was war at Gath, where there was a man of great stature who had twenty-four fingers and toes, six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot; and he also was descended from the giants. 
          7      When he taunted Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimea, David’s brother, killed him. 
          8      These were descended from the giants in Gath, and they fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants. 




Chapter 21


Census Brings Pestilence

          1      Then Satan stood up against Israel and moved David to number Israel. 
          2      So David said to Joab and to the princes of the people, “Go, number Israel from Beersheba even to Dan, and bring me word that I may know their number.” 
          3      Joab said, “May the LORD add to His people a hundred times as many as they are! But, my lord the king, are they not all my lord’s servants? Why does my lord seek this thing? Why should he be a cause of guilt to Israel?” 
          4      Nevertheless, the king’s word prevailed against Joab. Therefore, Joab departed and went throughout all Israel, and came to Jerusalem. 
          5      Joab gave the number of the census of all the people to David. And all Israel were 1,100,000 men who drew the sword; and Judah was 470,000 men who drew the sword. 
          6      But he did not number Levi and Benjamin among them, for the king’s command was abhorrent to Joab. 
          7      God was displeased with this thing, so He struck Israel. 
          8      David said to God, “I have sinned greatly, in that I have done this thing. But now, please take away the iniquity of Your servant, for I have done very foolishly.” 
          9      The LORD spoke to Gad, David’s seer, saying, 
          10      “Go and speak to David, saying, ‘Thus says the LORD, “I offer you three things; choose for yourself one of them, which I will do to you.” ’ ” 
          11      So Gad came to David and said to him, “Thus says the LORD, ‘Take for yourself 
          12      either three years of famine, or three months to be swept away before your foes, while the sword of your enemies overtakes you, or else three days of the sword of the LORD, even pestilence in the land, and the angel of the LORD destroying throughout all the territory of Israel.’ Now, therefore, consider what answer I shall return to Him who sent me.” 
          13      David said to Gad, “I am in great distress; please let me fall into the hand of the LORD, for His mercies are very great. But do not let me fall into the hand of man.” 
          14      So the LORD sent a pestilence on Israel; 70,000 men of Israel fell. 
          15      And God sent an angel to Jerusalem to destroy it; but as he was about to destroy it, the LORD saw and was sorry over the calamity, and said to the destroying angel, “It is enough; now relax your hand.” And the angel of the LORD was standing by the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 
          16      Then David lifted up his eyes and saw the angel of the LORD standing between earth and heaven, with his drawn sword in his hand stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders, covered with sackcloth, fell on their faces. 
          17      David said to God, “Is it not I who commanded to count the people? Indeed, I am the one who has sinned and done very wickedly, but these sheep, what have they done? O LORD my God, please let Your hand be against me and my father’s household, but not against Your people that they should be plagued.” 

David’s Altar

          18      Then the angel of the LORD commanded Gad to say to David, that David should go up and build an altar to the LORD on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 
          19      So David went up at the word of Gad, which he spoke in the name of the LORD. 
          20      Now Ornan turned back and saw the angel, and his four sons who were with him hid themselves. And Ornan was threshing wheat. 
          21      As David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David, and went out from the threshing floor and prostrated himself before David with his face to the ground. 
          22      Then David said to Ornan, “Give me the site of this threshing floor, that I may build on it an altar to the LORD; for the full price you shall give it to me, that the plague may be restrained from the people.” 
          23      Ornan said to David, “Take it for yourself; and let my lord the king do what is good in his sight. See, I will give the oxen for burnt offerings and the threshing sledges for wood and the wheat for the grain offering; I will give it all.” 
          24      But King David said to Ornan, “No, but I will surely buy it for the full price; for I will not take what is yours for the LORD, or offer a burnt offering which costs me nothing.” 
          25      So David gave Ornan 600 shekels of gold by weight for the site. 
          26      Then David built an altar to the LORD there and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. And he called to the LORD and He answered him with fire from heaven on the altar of burnt offering. 
          27      The LORD commanded the angel, and he put his sword back in its sheath. 
          28      At that time, when David saw that the LORD had answered him on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite, he offered sacrifice there. 
          29      For the tabernacle of the LORD, which Moses had made in the wilderness, and the altar of burnt offering were in the high place at Gibeon at that time. 
          30      But David could not go before it to inquire of God, for he was terrified by the sword of the angel of the LORD. 




Chapter 22


David Prepares for Temple Building

          1      Then David said, “This is the house of the LORD God, and this is the altar of burnt offering for Israel.” 
          2      So David gave orders to gather the foreigners who were in the land of Israel, and he set stonecutters to hew out stones to build the house of God. 
          3      David prepared large quantities of iron to make the nails for the doors of the gates and for the clamps, and more bronze than could be weighed; 
          4      and timbers of cedar logs beyond number, for the Sidonians and Tyrians brought large quantities of cedar timber to David. 
          5      David said, “My son Solomon is young and inexperienced, and the house that is to be built for the LORD shall be exceedingly magnificent, famous and glorious throughout all lands. Therefore now I will make preparation for it.” So David made ample preparations before his death. 

Solomon Charged with the Task

          6      Then he called for his son Solomon, and charged him to build a house for the LORD God of Israel. 
          7      David said to Solomon, “My son, I had intended to build a house to the name of the LORD my God. 
          8      “But the word of the LORD came to me, saying, ‘You have shed much blood and have waged great wars; you shall not build a house to My name, because you have shed so much blood on the earth before Me. 
          9      ‘Behold, a son will be born to you, who shall be a man of rest; and I will give him rest from all his enemies on every side; for his name shall be Solomon, and I will give peace and quiet to Israel in his days. 
          10      ‘He shall build a house for My name, and he shall be My son and I will be his father; and I will establish the throne of his kingdom over Israel forever.’ 
          11      “Now, my son, the LORD be with you that you may be successful, and build the house of the LORD your God just as He has spoken concerning you. 
          12      “Only the LORD give you discretion and understanding, and give you charge over Israel, so that you may keep the law of the LORD your God. 
          13      “Then you will prosper, if you are careful to observe the statutes and the ordinances which the LORD commanded Moses concerning Israel. Be strong and courageous, do not fear nor be dismayed. 
          14      “Now behold, with great pains I have prepared for the house of the LORD 100,000 talents of gold and 1,000,000 talents of silver, and bronze and iron beyond weight, for they are in great quantity; also timber and stone I have prepared, and you may add to them. 
          15      “Moreover, there are many workmen with you, stonecutters and masons of stone and carpenters, and all men who are skillful in every kind of work. 
          16      “Of the gold, the silver and the bronze and the iron there is no limit. Arise and work, and may the LORD be with you.” 
          17      David also commanded all the leaders of Israel to help his son Solomon, saying, 
          18      “Is not the LORD your God with you? And has He not given you rest on every side? For He has given the inhabitants of the land into my hand, and the land is subdued before the LORD and before His people. 
          19      “Now set your heart and your soul to seek the LORD your God; arise, therefore, and build the sanctuary of the LORD God, so that you may bring the ark of the covenant of the LORD and the holy vessels of God into the house that is to be built for the name of the LORD.” 




Chapter 23


Solomon Reigns

          1      Now when David reached old age, he made his son Solomon king over Israel. 
          2      And he gathered together all the leaders of Israel with the priests and the Levites. 

Offices of the Levites

          3      The Levites were numbered from thirty years old and upward, and their number by census of men was 38,000. 
          4      Of these, 24,000 were to oversee the work of the house of the LORD; and 6,000 were officers and judges, 
          5      and 4,000 were gatekeepers, and 4,000 were praising the LORD with the instruments which David made for giving praise. 
          6      David divided them into divisions according to the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 

Gershonites

          7      Of the Gershonites were Ladan and Shimei. 
          8      The sons of Ladan were Jehiel the first and Zetham and Joel, three. 
          9      The sons of Shimei were Shelomoth and Haziel and Haran, three. These were the heads of the fathers’ households of Ladan. 
          10      The sons of Shimei were Jahath, Zina, Jeush and Beriah. These four were the sons of Shimei. 
          11      Jahath was the first and Zizah the second; but Jeush and Beriah did not have many sons, so they became a father’s household, one class. 

Kohathites

          12      The sons of Kohath were four: Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel. 
          13      The sons of Amram were Aaron and Moses. And Aaron was set apart to sanctify him as most holy, he and his sons forever, to burn incense before the LORD, to minister to Him and to bless in His name forever. 
          14      But as for Moses the man of God, his sons were named among the tribe of Levi. 
          15      The sons of Moses were Gershom and Eliezer. 
          16      The son of Gershom was Shebuel the chief. 
          17      The son of Eliezer was Rehabiah the chief; and Eliezer had no other sons, but the sons of Rehabiah were very many. 
          18      The son of Izhar was Shelomith the chief. 
          19      The sons of Hebron were Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third and Jekameam the fourth. 
          20      The sons of Uzziel were Micah the first and Isshiah the second. 

Merarites

          21      The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli were Eleazar and Kish. 
          22      Eleazar died and had no sons, but daughters only, so their brothers, the sons of Kish, took them as wives. 
          23      The sons of Mushi were three: Mahli, Eder and Jeremoth. 

Duties Revised

          24      These were the sons of Levi according to their fathers’ households, even the heads of the fathers’ households of those of them who were counted, in the number of names by their census, doing the work for the service of the house of the LORD, from twenty years old and upward. 
          25      For David said, “The LORD God of Israel has given rest to His people, and He dwells in Jerusalem forever. 
          26      “Also, the Levites will no longer need to carry the tabernacle and all its utensils for its service.” 
          27      For by the last words of David the sons of Levi were numbered from twenty years old and upward. 
          28      For their office is to assist the sons of Aaron with the service of the house of the LORD, in the courts and in the chambers and in the purifying of all holy things, even the work of the service of the house of God, 
          29      and with the showbread, and the fine flour for a grain offering, and unleavened wafers, or what is baked in the pan or what is well-mixed, and all measures of volume and size. 
          30      They are to stand every morning to thank and to praise the LORD, and likewise at evening, 
          31      and to offer all burnt offerings to the LORD, on the sabbaths, the new moons and the fixed festivals in the number set by the ordinance concerning them, continually before the LORD. 
          32      Thus they are to keep charge of the tent of meeting, and charge of the holy place, and charge of the sons of Aaron their relatives, for the service of the house of the LORD. 




Chapter 24


Divisions of Levites

          1      Now the divisions of the descendants of Aaron were these: the sons of Aaron were Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar. 
          2      But Nadab and Abihu died before their father and had no sons. So Eleazar and Ithamar served as priests. 
          3      David, with Zadok of the sons of Eleazar and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, divided them according to their offices for their ministry. 
          4      Since more chief men were found from the descendants of Eleazar than the descendants of Ithamar, they divided them thus: there were sixteen heads of fathers’ households of the descendants of Eleazar and eight of the descendants of Ithamar, according to their fathers’ households. 
          5      Thus they were divided by lot, the one as the other; for they were officers of the sanctuary and officers of God, both from the descendants of Eleazar and the descendants of Ithamar. 
          6      Shemaiah, the son of Nethanel the scribe, from the Levites, recorded them in the presence of the king, the princes, Zadok the priest, Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, and the heads of the fathers’ households of the priests and of the Levites; one father’s household taken for Eleazar and one taken for Ithamar. 
          7      Now the first lot came out for Jehoiarib, the second for Jedaiah, 
          8      the third for Harim, the fourth for Seorim, 
          9      the fifth for Malchijah, the sixth for Mijamin, 
          10      the seventh for Hakkoz, the eighth for Abijah, 
          11      the ninth for Jeshua, the tenth for Shecaniah, 
          12      the eleventh for Eliashib, the twelfth for Jakim, 
          13      the thirteenth for Huppah, the fourteenth for Jeshebeab, 
          14      the fifteenth for Bilgah, the sixteenth for Immer, 
          15      the seventeenth for Hezir, the eighteenth for Happizzez, 
          16      the nineteenth for Pethahiah, the twentieth for Jehezkel, 
          17      the twenty-first for Jachin, the twenty-second for Gamul, 
          18      the twenty-third for Delaiah, the twenty-fourth for Maaziah. 
          19      These were their offices for their ministry when they came in to the house of the LORD according to the ordinance given to them through Aaron their father, just as the LORD God of Israel had commanded him. 
          20      Now for the rest of the sons of Levi: of the sons of Amram, Shubael; of the sons of Shubael, Jehdeiah. 
          21      Of Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah, Isshiah the first. 
          22      Of the Izharites, Shelomoth; of the sons of Shelomoth, Jahath. 
          23      The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth. 
          24      Of the sons of Uzziel, Micah; of the sons of Micah, Shamir. 
          25      The brother of Micah, Isshiah; of the sons of Isshiah, Zechariah. 
          26      The sons of Merari, Mahli and Mushi; the sons of Jaaziah, Beno. 
          27      The sons of Merari: by Jaaziah were Beno, Shoham, Zaccur and Ibri. 
          28      By Mahli: Eleazar, who had no sons. 
          29      By Kish: the sons of Kish, Jerahmeel. 
          30      The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder and Jerimoth. These were the sons of the Levites according to their fathers’ households. 
          31      These also cast lots just as their relatives the sons of Aaron in the presence of David the king, Zadok, Ahimelech, and the heads of the fathers’ households of the priests and of the Levites—the head of fathers’ households as well as those of his younger brother. 




Chapter 25


Number and Services of Musicians

          1      Moreover, David and the commanders of the army set apart for the service some of the sons of Asaph and of Heman and of Jeduthun, who were to prophesy with lyres, harps and cymbals; and the number of those who performed their service was: 
          2      Of the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, Joseph, Nethaniah and Asharelah; the sons of Asaph were under the direction of Asaph, who prophesied under the direction of the king. 
          3      Of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Shimei, Hashabiah and Mattithiah, six, under the direction of their father Jeduthun with the harp, who prophesied in giving thanks and praising the LORD. 
          4      Of Heman, the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti and Romamti-ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, Mahazioth. 
          5      All these were the sons of Heman the king’s seer to exalt him according to the words of God, for God gave fourteen sons and three daughters to Heman. 
          6      All these were under the direction of their father to sing in the house of the LORD, with cymbals, harps and lyres, for the service of the house of God. Asaph, Jeduthun and Heman were under the direction of the king. 
          7      Their number who were trained in singing to the LORD, with their relatives, all who were skillful, was 288. 

Divisions of Musicians

          8      They cast lots for their duties, all alike, the small as well as the great, the teacher as well as the pupil. 
          9      Now the first lot came out for Asaph to Joseph, the second for Gedaliah, he with his relatives and sons were twelve; 
          10      the third to Zaccur, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          11      the fourth to Izri, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          12      the fifth to Nethaniah, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          13      the sixth to Bukkiah, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          14      the seventh to Jesharelah, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          15      the eighth to Jeshaiah, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          16      the ninth to Mattaniah, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          17      the tenth to Shimei, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          18      the eleventh to Azarel, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          19      the twelfth to Hashabiah, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          20      for the thirteenth, Shubael, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          21      for the fourteenth, Mattithiah, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          22      for the fifteenth to Jeremoth, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          23      for the sixteenth to Hananiah, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          24      for the seventeenth to Joshbekashah, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          25      for the eighteenth to Hanani, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          26      for the nineteenth to Mallothi, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          27      for the twentieth to Eliathah, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          28      for the twenty-first to Hothir, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          29      for the twenty-second to Giddalti, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          30      for the twenty-third to Mahazioth, his sons and his relatives, twelve; 
          31      for the twenty-fourth to Romamti-ezer, his sons and his relatives, twelve. 




Chapter 26


Divisions of the Gatekeepers

          1      For the divisions of the gatekeepers there were of the Korahites, Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph. 
          2      Meshelemiah had sons: Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth, 
          3      Elam the fifth, Johanan the sixth, Eliehoenai the seventh. 
          4      Obed-edom had sons: Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, Sacar the fourth, Nethanel the fifth, 
          5      Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh and Peullethai the eighth; God had indeed blessed him. 
          6      Also to his son Shemaiah sons were born who ruled over the house of their father, for they were mighty men of valor. 
          7      The sons of Shemaiah were Othni, Rephael, Obed and Elzabad, whose brothers, Elihu and Semachiah, were valiant men. 
          8      All these were of the sons of Obed-edom; they and their sons and their relatives were able men with strength for the service, 62 from Obed-edom. 
          9      Meshelemiah had sons and relatives, 18 valiant men. 
          10      Also Hosah, one of the sons of Merari had sons: Shimri the first (although he was not the firstborn, his father made him first), 
          11      Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth; all the sons and relatives of Hosah were 13. 
          12      To these divisions of the gatekeepers, the chief men, were given duties like their relatives to minister in the house of the LORD. 
          13      They cast lots, the small and the great alike, according to their fathers’ households, for every gate. 
          14      The lot to the east fell to Shelemiah. Then they cast lots for his son Zechariah, a counselor with insight, and his lot came out to the north. 
          15      For Obed-edom it fell to the south, and to his sons went the storehouse. 
          16      For Shuppim and Hosah it was to the west, by the gate of Shallecheth, on the ascending highway. Guard corresponded to guard. 
          17      On the east there were six Levites, on the north four daily, on the south four daily, and at the storehouse two by two. 
          18      At the Parbar on the west there were four at the highway and two at the Parbar. 
          19      These were the divisions of the gatekeepers of the sons of Korah and of the sons of Merari. 

Keepers of the Treasure

          20      The Levites, their relatives, had charge of the treasures of the house of God and of the treasures of the dedicated gifts. 
          21      The sons of Ladan, the sons of the Gershonites belonging to Ladan, namely, the Jehielites, were the heads of the fathers’ households, belonging to Ladan the Gershonite. 
          22      The sons of Jehieli, Zetham and Joel his brother, had charge of the treasures of the house of the LORD. 
          23      As for the Amramites, the Izharites, the Hebronites and the Uzzielites, 
          24      Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was officer over the treasures. 
          25      His relatives by Eliezer were Rehabiah his son, Jeshaiah his son, Joram his son, Zichri his son and Shelomoth his son. 
          26      This Shelomoth and his relatives had charge of all the treasures of the dedicated gifts which King David and the heads of the fathers’ households, the commanders of thousands and hundreds, and the commanders of the army, had dedicated. 
          27      They dedicated part of the spoil won in battles to repair the house of the LORD. 
          28      And all that Samuel the seer had dedicated and Saul the son of Kish, Abner the son of Ner and Joab the son of Zeruiah, everyone who had dedicated anything, all of this was in the care of Shelomoth and his relatives. 

Outside Duties

          29      As for the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were assigned to outside duties for Israel, as officers and judges. 
          30      As for the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his relatives, 1,700 capable men, had charge of the affairs of Israel west of the Jordan, for all the work of the LORD and the service of the king. 
          31      As for the Hebronites, Jerijah the chief (these Hebronites were investigated according to their genealogies and fathers’ households, in the fortieth year of David’s reign, and men of outstanding capability were found among them at Jazer of Gilead) 
          32      and his relatives, capable men, were 2,700 in number, heads of fathers’ households. And King David made them overseers of the Reubenites, the Gadites and the half-tribe of the Manassites concerning all the affairs of God and of the king. 




Chapter 27


Commanders of the Army

          1      Now this is the enumeration of the sons of Israel, the heads of fathers’ households, the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, and their officers who served the king in all the affairs of the divisions which came in and went out month by month throughout all the months of the year, each division numbering 24,000: 
          2      Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel had charge of the first division for the first month; and in his division were 24,000. 
          3      He was from the sons of Perez, and was chief of all the commanders of the army for the first month. 
          4      Dodai the Ahohite and his division had charge of the division for the second month, Mikloth being the chief officer; and in his division were 24,000. 
          5      The third commander of the army for the third month was Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada the priest, as chief; and in his division were 24,000. 
          6      This Benaiah was the mighty man of the thirty, and had charge of thirty; and over his division was Ammizabad his son. 
          7      The fourth for the fourth month was Asahel the brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him; and in his division were 24,000. 
          8      The fifth for the fifth month was the commander Shamhuth the Izrahite; and in his division were 24,000. 
          9      The sixth for the sixth month was Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite; and in his division were 24,000. 
          10      The seventh for the seventh month was Helez the Pelonite of the sons of Ephraim; and in his division were 24,000. 
          11      The eighth for the eighth month was Sibbecai the Hushathite of the Zerahites; and in his division were 24,000. 
          12      The ninth for the ninth month was Abiezer the Anathothite of the Benjamites; and in his division were 24,000. 
          13      The tenth for the tenth month was Maharai the Netophathite of the Zerahites; and in his division were 24,000. 
          14      The eleventh for the eleventh month was Benaiah the Pirathonite of the sons of Ephraim; and in his division were 24,000. 
          15      The twelfth for the twelfth month was Heldai the Netophathite of Othniel; and in his division were 24,000. 

Chief Officers of the Tribes

          16      Now in charge of the tribes of Israel: chief officer for the Reubenites was Eliezer the son of Zichri; for the Simeonites, Shephatiah the son of Maacah; 
          17      for Levi, Hashabiah the son of Kemuel; for Aaron, Zadok; 
          18      for Judah, Elihu, one of David’s brothers; for Issachar, Omri the son of Michael; 
          19      for Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah; for Naphtali, Jeremoth the son of Azriel; 
          20      for the sons of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Azaziah; for the half-tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedaiah; 
          21      for the half-tribe of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah; for Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner; 
          22      for Dan, Azarel the son of Jeroham. These were the princes of the tribes of Israel. 
          23      But David did not count those twenty years of age and under, because the LORD had said He would multiply Israel as the stars of heaven. 
          24      Joab the son of Zeruiah had begun to count them, but did not finish; and because of this, wrath came upon Israel, and the number was not included in the account of the chronicles of King David. 

Various Overseers

          25      Now Azmaveth the son of Adiel had charge of the king’s storehouses. And Jonathan the son of Uzziah had charge of the storehouses in the country, in the cities, in the villages and in the towers. 
          26      Ezri the son of Chelub had charge of the agricultural workers who tilled the soil. 
          27      Shimei the Ramathite had charge of the vineyards; and Zabdi the Shiphmite had charge of the produce of the vineyards stored in the wine cellars. 
          28      Baal-hanan the Gederite had charge of the olive and sycamore trees in the Shephelah; and Joash had charge of the stores of oil. 
          29      Shitrai the Sharonite had charge of the cattle which were grazing in Sharon; and Shaphat the son of Adlai had charge of the cattle in the valleys. 
          30      Obil the Ishmaelite had charge of the camels; and Jehdeiah the Meronothite had charge of the donkeys. 
          31      Jaziz the Hagrite had charge of the flocks. All these were overseers of the property which belonged to King David. 

Counselors

          32      Also Jonathan, David’s uncle, was a counselor, a man of understanding, and a scribe; and Jehiel the son of Hachmoni tutored the king’s sons. 
          33      Ahithophel was counselor to the king; and Hushai the Archite was the king’s friend. 
          34      Jehoiada the son of Benaiah, and Abiathar succeeded Ahithophel; and Joab was the commander of the king’s army. 




Chapter 28


David’s Address about the Temple

          1      Now David assembled at Jerusalem all the officials of Israel, the princes of the tribes, and the commanders of the divisions that served the king, and the commanders of thousands, and the commanders of hundreds, and the overseers of all the property and livestock belonging to the king and his sons, with the officials and the mighty men, even all the valiant men. 
          2      Then King David rose to his feet and said, “Listen to me, my brethren and my people; I had intended to build a permanent home for the ark of the covenant of the LORD and for the footstool of our God. So I had made preparations to build it. 
          3      “But God said to me, ‘You shall not build a house for My name because you are a man of war and have shed blood.’ 
          4      “Yet, the LORD, the God of Israel, chose me from all the house of my father to be king over Israel forever. For He has chosen Judah to be a leader; and in the house of Judah, my father’s house, and among the sons of my father He took pleasure in me to make me king over all Israel. 
          5      “Of all my sons (for the LORD has given me many sons), He has chosen my son Solomon to sit on the throne of the kingdom of the LORD over Israel. 
          6      “He said to me, ‘Your son Solomon is the one who shall build My house and My courts; for I have chosen him to be a son to Me, and I will be a father to him. 
          7      ‘I will establish his kingdom forever if he resolutely performs My commandments and My ordinances, as is done now.’ 
          8      “So now, in the sight of all Israel, the assembly of the LORD, and in the hearing of our God, observe and seek after all the commandments of the LORD your God so that you may possess the good land and bequeath it to your sons after you forever. 
          9      “As for you, my son Solomon, know the God of your father, and serve Him with a whole heart and a willing mind; for the LORD searches all hearts, and understands every intent of the thoughts. If you seek Him, He will let you find Him; but if you forsake Him, He will reject you forever. 
          10      “Consider now, for the LORD has chosen you to build a house for the sanctuary; be courageous and act.” 
          11      Then David gave to his son Solomon the plan of the porch of the temple, its buildings, its storehouses, its upper rooms, its inner rooms and the room for the mercy seat; 
          12      and the plan of all that he had in mind, for the courts of the house of the LORD, and for all the surrounding rooms, for the storehouses of the house of God and for the storehouses of the dedicated things; 
          13      also for the divisions of the priests and the Levites and for all the work of the service of the house of the LORD and for all the utensils of service in the house of the LORD; 
          14      for the golden utensils, the weight of gold for all utensils for every kind of service; for the silver utensils, the weight of silver for all utensils for every kind of service; 
          15      and the weight of gold for the golden lampstands and their golden lamps, with the weight of each lampstand and its lamps; and the weight of silver for the silver lampstands, with the weight of each lampstand and its lamps according to the use of each lampstand; 
          16      and the gold by weight for the tables of showbread, for each table; and silver for the silver tables; 
          17      and the forks, the basins, and the pitchers of pure gold; and for the golden bowls with the weight for each bowl; and for the silver bowls with the weight for each bowl; 
          18      and for the altar of incense refined gold by weight; and gold for the model of the chariot, even the cherubim that spread out their wings and covered the ark of the covenant of the LORD. 
          19      “All this,” said David, “the LORD made me understand in writing by His hand upon me, all the details of this pattern.” 
          20      Then David said to his son Solomon, “Be strong and courageous, and act; do not fear nor be dismayed, for the LORD God, my God, is with you. He will not fail you nor forsake you until all the work for the service of the house of the LORD is finished. 
          21      “Now behold, there are the divisions of the priests and the Levites for all the service of the house of God, and every willing man of any skill will be with you in all the work for all kinds of service. The officials also and all the people will be entirely at your command.” 




Chapter 29


Offerings for the Temple

          1      Then King David said to the entire assembly, “My son Solomon, whom alone God has chosen, is still young and inexperienced and the work is great; for the temple is not for man, but for the LORD God. 
          2      “Now with all my ability I have provided for the house of my God the gold for the things of gold, and the silver for the things of silver, and the bronze for the things of bronze, the iron for the things of iron, and wood for the things of wood, onyx stones and inlaid stones, stones of antimony and stones of various colors, and all kinds of precious stones and alabaster in abundance. 
          3      “Moreover, in my delight in the house of my God, the treasure I have of gold and silver, I give to the house of my God, over and above all that I have already provided for the holy temple, 
          4      namely, 3,000 talents of gold, of the gold of Ophir, and 7,000 talents of refined silver, to overlay the walls of the buildings; 
          5      of gold for the things of gold and of silver for the things of silver, that is, for all the work done by the craftsmen. Who then is willing to consecrate himself this day to the LORD?” 
          6      Then the rulers of the fathers’ households, and the princes of the tribes of Israel, and the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, with the overseers over the king’s work, offered willingly; 
          7      and for the service for the house of God they gave 5,000 talents and 10,000 darics of gold, and 10,000 talents of silver, and 18,000 talents of brass, and 100,000 talents of iron. 
          8      Whoever possessed precious stones gave them to the treasury of the house of the LORD, in care of Jehiel the Gershonite. 
          9      Then the people rejoiced because they had offered so willingly, for they made their offering to the LORD with a whole heart, and King David also rejoiced greatly. 

David’s Prayer

          10      So David blessed the LORD in the sight of all the assembly; and David said, “Blessed are You, O LORD God of Israel our father, forever and ever. 
          11      “Yours, O LORD, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty, indeed everything that is in the heavens and the earth; Yours is the dominion, O LORD, and You exalt Yourself as head over all. 
          12      “Both riches and honor come from You, and You rule over all, and in Your hand is power and might; and it lies in Your hand to make great and to strengthen everyone. 
          13      “Now therefore, our God, we thank You, and praise Your glorious name. 
          14      “But who am I and who are my people that we should be able to offer as generously as this? For all things come from You, and from Your hand we have given You. 
          15      “For we are sojourners before You, and tenants, as all our fathers were; our days on the earth are like a shadow, and there is no hope. 
          16      “O LORD our God, all this abundance that we have provided to build You a house for Your holy name, it is from Your hand, and all is Yours. 
          17      “Since I know, O my God, that You try the heart and delight in uprightness, I, in the integrity of my heart, have willingly offered all these things; so now with joy I have seen Your people, who are present here, make their offerings willingly to You. 
          18      “O LORD, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Israel, our fathers, preserve this forever in the intentions of the heart of Your people, and direct their heart to You; 
          19      and give to my son Solomon a perfect heart to keep Your commandments, Your testimonies and Your statutes, and to do them all, and to build the temple, for which I have made provision.” 
          20      Then David said to all the assembly, “Now bless the LORD your God.” And all the assembly blessed the LORD, the God of their fathers, and bowed low and did homage to the LORD and to the king. 

Sacrifices

          21      On the next day they made sacrifices to the LORD and offered burnt offerings to the LORD, 1,000 bulls, 1,000 rams and 1,000 lambs, with their drink offerings and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel. 
          22      So they ate and drank that day before the LORD with great gladness. 

Solomon Again Made King

    And they made Solomon the son of David king a second time, and they anointed him as ruler for the LORD and Zadok as priest. 
          23      Then Solomon sat on the throne of the LORD as king instead of David his father; and he prospered, and all Israel obeyed him. 
          24      All the officials, the mighty men, and also all the sons of King David pledged allegiance to King Solomon. 
          25      The LORD highly exalted Solomon in the sight of all Israel, and bestowed on him royal majesty which had not been on any king before him in Israel. 
          26      Now David the son of Jesse reigned over all Israel. 
          27      The period which he reigned over Israel was forty years; he reigned in Hebron seven years and in Jerusalem thirty-three years. 

Death of David

          28      Then he died in a ripe old age, full of days, riches and honor; and his son Solomon reigned in his place. 
          29      Now the acts of King David, from first to last, are written in the chronicles of Samuel the seer, in the chronicles of Nathan the prophet and in the chronicles of Gad the seer, 
          30      with all his reign, his power, and the circumstances which came on him, on Israel, and on all the kingdoms of the lands. 


2 Chronicles



Chapter 1


Solomon Worships at Gibeon

          1      Now Solomon the son of David established himself securely over his kingdom, and the LORD his God was with him and exalted him greatly. 
          2      Solomon spoke to all Israel, to the commanders of thousands and of hundreds and to the judges and to every leader in all Israel, the heads of the fathers’ households. 
          3      Then Solomon and all the assembly with him went to the high place which was at Gibeon, for God’s tent of meeting was there, which Moses the servant of the LORD had made in the wilderness. 
          4      However, David had brought up the ark of God from Kiriath-jearim to the place he had prepared for it, for he had pitched a tent for it in Jerusalem. 
          5      Now the bronze altar, which Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, had made, was there before the tabernacle of the LORD, and Solomon and the assembly sought it out. 
          6      Solomon went up there before the LORD to the bronze altar which was at the tent of meeting, and offered a thousand burnt offerings on it. 
          7      In that night God appeared to Solomon and said to him, “Ask what I shall give you.” 

Solomon’s Prayer for Wisdom

          8      Solomon said to God, “You have dealt with my father David with great lovingkindness, and have made me king in his place. 
          9      “Now, O LORD God, Your promise to my father David is fulfilled, for You have made me king over a people as numerous as the dust of the earth. 
          10      “Give me now wisdom and knowledge, that I may go out and come in before this people, for who can rule this great people of Yours?” 
          11      God said to Solomon, “Because you had this in mind, and did not ask for riches, wealth or honor, or the life of those who hate you, nor have you even asked for long life, but you have asked for yourself wisdom and knowledge that you may rule My people over whom I have made you king, 
          12      wisdom and knowledge have been granted to you. And I will give you riches and wealth and honor, such as none of the kings who were before you has possessed nor those who will come after you.” 
          13      So Solomon went from the high place which was at Gibeon, from the tent of meeting, to Jerusalem, and he reigned over Israel. 

Solomon’s Wealth

          14      Solomon amassed chariots and horsemen. He had 1,400 chariots and 12,000 horsemen, and he stationed them in the chariot cities and with the king at Jerusalem. 
          15      The king made silver and gold as plentiful in Jerusalem as stones, and he made cedars as plentiful as sycamores in the lowland. 
          16      Solomon’s horses were imported from Egypt and from Kue; the king’s traders procured them from Kue for a price. 
          17      They imported chariots from Egypt for 600 shekels of silver apiece and horses for 150 apiece, and by the same means they exported them to all the kings of the Hittites and the kings of Aram. 




Chapter 2


Solomon Will Build a Temple and Palace

          1      Now Solomon decided to build a house for the name of the LORD and a royal palace for himself. 
          2      So Solomon assigned 70,000 men to carry loads and 80,000 men to quarry stone in the mountains and 3,600 to supervise them. 
          3      Then Solomon sent word to Huram the king of Tyre, saying, “As you dealt with David my father and sent him cedars to build him a house to dwell in, so do for me. 
          4      “Behold, I am about to build a house for the name of the LORD my God, dedicating it to Him, to burn fragrant incense before Him and to set out the showbread continually, and to offer burnt offerings morning and evening, on sabbaths and on new moons and on the appointed feasts of the LORD our God, this being required forever in Israel. 
          5      “The house which I am about to build will be great, for greater is our God than all the gods. 
          6      “But who is able to build a house for Him, for the heavens and the highest heavens cannot contain Him? So who am I, that I should build a house for Him, except to burn incense before Him? 
          7      “Now send me a skilled man to work in gold, silver, brass and iron, and in purple, crimson and violet fabrics, and who knows how to make engravings, to work with the skilled men whom I have in Judah and Jerusalem, whom David my father provided. 
          8      “Send me also cedar, cypress and algum timber from Lebanon, for I know that your servants know how to cut timber of Lebanon; and indeed my servants will work with your servants, 
          9      to prepare timber in abundance for me, for the house which I am about to build will be great and wonderful. 
          10      “Now behold, I will give to your servants, the woodsmen who cut the timber, 20,000 kors of crushed wheat and 20,000 kors of barley, and 20,000 baths of wine and 20,000 baths of oil.” 

Huram to Assist

          11      Then Huram, king of Tyre, answered in a letter sent to Solomon: “Because the LORD loves His people, He has made you king over them.” 
          12      Then Huram continued, “Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, who has made heaven and earth, who has given King David a wise son, endowed with discretion and understanding, who will build a house for the LORD and a royal palace for himself. 
          13      “Now I am sending Huram-abi, a skilled man, endowed with understanding, 
          14      the son of a Danite woman and a Tyrian father, who knows how to work in gold, silver, bronze, iron, stone and wood, and in purple, violet, linen and crimson fabrics, and who knows how to make all kinds of engravings and to execute any design which may be assigned to him, to work with your skilled men and with those of my lord David your father. 
          15      “Now then, let my lord send to his servants wheat and barley, oil and wine, of which he has spoken. 
          16      “We will cut whatever timber you need from Lebanon and bring it to you on rafts by sea to Joppa, so that you may carry it up to Jerusalem.” 
          17      Solomon numbered all the aliens who were in the land of Israel, following the census which his father David had taken; and 153,600 were found. 
          18      He appointed 70,000 of them to carry loads and 80,000 to quarry stones in the mountains and 3,600 supervisors to make the people work. 




Chapter 3


The Temple Construction in Jerusalem

          1      Then Solomon began to build the house of the LORD in Jerusalem on Mount Moriah, where the LORD had appeared to his father David, at the place that David had prepared on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite. 
          2      He began to build on the second day in the second month of the fourth year of his reign. 

Dimensions and Materials of the Temple

          3      Now these are the foundations which Solomon laid for building the house of God. The length in cubits, according to the old standard was sixty cubits, and the width twenty cubits. 
          4      The porch which was in front of the house was as long as the width of the house, twenty cubits, and the height 120; and inside he overlaid it with pure gold. 
          5      He overlaid the main room with cypress wood and overlaid it with fine gold, and ornamented it with palm trees and chains. 
          6      Further, he adorned the house with precious stones; and the gold was gold from Parvaim. 
          7      He also overlaid the house with gold—the beams, the thresholds and its walls and its doors; and he carved cherubim on the walls. 
          8      Now he made the room of the holy of holies: its length across the width of the house was twenty cubits, and its width was twenty cubits; and he overlaid it with fine gold, amounting to 600 talents. 
          9      The weight of the nails was fifty shekels of gold. He also overlaid the upper rooms with gold. 
          10      Then he made two sculptured cherubim in the room of the holy of holies and overlaid them with gold. 
          11      The wingspan of the cherubim was twenty cubits; the wing of one, of five cubits, touched the wall of the house, and its other wing, of five cubits, touched the wing of the other cherub. 
          12      The wing of the other cherub, of five cubits, touched the wall of the house; and its other wing of five cubits was attached to the wing of the first cherub. 
          13      The wings of these cherubim extended twenty cubits, and they stood on their feet facing the main room. 
          14      He made the veil of violet, purple, crimson and fine linen, and he worked cherubim on it. 
          15      He also made two pillars for the front of the house, thirty-five cubits high, and the capital on the top of each was five cubits. 
          16      He made chains in the inner sanctuary and placed them on the tops of the pillars; and he made one hundred pomegranates and placed them on the chains. 
          17      He erected the pillars in front of the temple, one on the right and the other on the left, and named the one on the right Jachin and the one on the left Boaz. 




Chapter 4


Furnishings of the Temple

          1      Then he made a bronze altar, twenty cubits in length and twenty cubits in width and ten cubits in height. 
          2      Also he made the cast metal sea, ten cubits from brim to brim, circular in form, and its height was five cubits and its circumference thirty cubits. 
          3      Now figures like oxen were under it and all around it, ten cubits, entirely encircling the sea. The oxen were in two rows, cast in one piece. 
          4      It stood on twelve oxen, three facing the north, three facing west, three facing south and three facing east; and the sea was set on top of them and all their hindquarters turned inwards. 
          5      It was a handbreadth thick, and its brim was made like the brim of a cup, like a lily blossom; it could hold 3,000 baths. 
          6      He also made ten basins in which to wash, and he set five on the right side and five on the left to rinse things for the burnt offering; but the sea was for the priests to wash in. 
          7      Then he made the ten golden lampstands in the way prescribed for them and he set them in the temple, five on the right side and five on the left. 
          8      He also made ten tables and placed them in the temple, five on the right side and five on the left. And he made one hundred golden bowls. 
          9      Then he made the court of the priests and the great court and doors for the court, and overlaid their doors with bronze. 
          10      He set the sea on the right side of the house toward the southeast. 
          11      Huram also made the pails, the shovels and the bowls. So Huram finished doing the work which he performed for King Solomon in the house of God: 
          12      the two pillars, the bowls and the two capitals on top of the pillars, and the two networks to cover the two bowls of the capitals which were on top of the pillars, 
          13      and the four hundred pomegranates for the two networks, two rows of pomegranates for each network to cover the two bowls of the capitals which were on the pillars. 
          14      He also made the stands and he made the basins on the stands, 
          15      and the one sea with the twelve oxen under it. 
          16      The pails, the shovels, the forks and all its utensils, Huram-abi made of polished bronze for King Solomon for the house of the LORD. 
          17      On the plain of the Jordan the king cast them in the clay ground between Succoth and Zeredah. 
          18      Thus Solomon made all these utensils in great quantities, for the weight of the bronze could not be found out. 
          19      Solomon also made all the things that were in the house of God: even the golden altar, the tables with the bread of the Presence on them, 
          20      the lampstands with their lamps of pure gold, to burn in front of the inner sanctuary in the way prescribed; 
          21      the flowers, the lamps, and the tongs of gold, of purest gold; 
          22      and the snuffers, the bowls, the spoons and the firepans of pure gold; and the entrance of the house, its inner doors for the holy of holies and the doors of the house, that is, of the nave, of gold. 




Chapter 5


The Ark Is Brought into the Temple

          1      Thus all the work that Solomon performed for the house of the LORD was finished. And Solomon brought in the things that David his father had dedicated, even the silver and the gold and all the utensils, and put them in the treasuries of the house of God. 
          2      Then Solomon assembled to Jerusalem the elders of Israel and all the heads of the tribes, the leaders of the fathers’ households of the sons of Israel, to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of the city of David, which is Zion. 
          3      All the men of Israel assembled themselves to the king at the feast, that is in the seventh month. 
          4      Then all the elders of Israel came, and the Levites took up the ark. 
          5      They brought up the ark and the tent of meeting and all the holy utensils which were in the tent; the Levitical priests brought them up. 
          6      And King Solomon and all the congregation of Israel who were assembled with him before the ark, were sacrificing so many sheep and oxen that they could not be counted or numbered. 
          7      Then the priests brought the ark of the covenant of the LORD to its place, into the inner sanctuary of the house, to the holy of holies, under the wings of the cherubim. 
          8      For the cherubim spread their wings over the place of the ark, so that the cherubim made a covering over the ark and its poles. 
          9      The poles were so long that the ends of the poles of the ark could be seen in front of the inner sanctuary, but they could not be seen outside; and they are there to this day. 
          10      There was nothing in the ark except the two tablets which Moses put there at Horeb, where the LORD made a covenant with the sons of Israel, when they came out of Egypt. 

The Glory of God Fills the Temple

          11      When the priests came forth from the holy place (for all the priests who were present had sanctified themselves, without regard to divisions), 
          12      and all the Levitical singers, Asaph, Heman, Jeduthun, and their sons and kinsmen, clothed in fine linen, with cymbals, harps and lyres, standing east of the altar, and with them one hundred and twenty priests blowing trumpets 
          13      in unison when the trumpeters and the singers were to make themselves heard with one voice to praise and to glorify the LORD, and when they lifted up their voice accompanied by trumpets and cymbals and instruments of music, and when they praised the LORD saying, “He indeed is good for His lovingkindness is everlasting,” then the house, the house of the LORD, was filled with a cloud, 
          14      so that the priests could not stand to minister because of the cloud, for the glory of the LORD filled the house of God. 




Chapter 6


Solomon’s Dedication

          1      Then Solomon said, 
         “The LORD has said that He would dwell in the thick cloud. 
               2      “I have built You a lofty house, 
         And a place for Your dwelling forever.” 
          3      Then the king faced about and blessed all the assembly of Israel, while all the assembly of Israel was standing. 
          4      He said, “Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, who spoke with His mouth to my father David and has fulfilled it with His hands, saying, 
          5      ‘Since the day that I brought My people from the land of Egypt, I did not choose a city out of all the tribes of Israel in which to build a house that My name might be there, nor did I choose any man for a leader over My people Israel; 
          6      but I have chosen Jerusalem that My name might be there, and I have chosen David to be over My people Israel.’ 
          7      “Now it was in the heart of my father David to build a house for the name of the LORD, the God of Israel. 
          8      “But the LORD said to my father David, ‘Because it was in your heart to build a house for My name, you did well that it was in your heart. 
          9      ‘Nevertheless you shall not build the house, but your son who will be born to you, he shall build the house for My name.’ 
          10      “Now the LORD has fulfilled His word which He spoke; for I have risen in the place of my father David and sit on the throne of Israel, as the LORD promised, and have built the house for the name of the LORD, the God of Israel. 
          11      “There I have set the ark in which is the covenant of the LORD, which He made with the sons of Israel.” 

Solomon’s Prayer of Dedication

          12      Then he stood before the altar of the LORD in the presence of all the assembly of Israel and spread out his hands. 
          13      Now Solomon had made a bronze platform, five cubits long, five cubits wide and three cubits high, and had set it in the midst of the court; and he stood on it, knelt on his knees in the presence of all the assembly of Israel and spread out his hands toward heaven. 
          14      He said, “O LORD, the God of Israel, there is no god like You in heaven or on earth, keeping covenant and showing lovingkindness to Your servants who walk before You with all their heart; 
          15      who has kept with Your servant David, my father, that which You have promised him; indeed You have spoken with Your mouth and have fulfilled it with Your hand, as it is this day. 
          16      “Now therefore, O LORD, the God of Israel, keep with Your servant David, my father, that which You have promised him, saying, ‘You shall not lack a man to sit on the throne of Israel, if only your sons take heed to their way, to walk in My law as you have walked before Me.’ 
          17      “Now therefore, O LORD, the God of Israel, let Your word be confirmed which You have spoken to Your servant David. 
          18      “But will God indeed dwell with mankind on the earth? Behold, heaven and the highest heaven cannot contain You; how much less this house which I have built. 
          19      “Yet have regard to the prayer of Your servant and to his supplication, O LORD my God, to listen to the cry and to the prayer which Your servant prays before You; 
          20      that Your eye may be open toward this house day and night, toward the place of which You have said that You would put Your name there, to listen to the prayer which Your servant shall pray toward this place. 
          21      “Listen to the supplications of Your servant and of Your people Israel when they pray toward this place; hear from Your dwelling place, from heaven; hear and forgive. 
          22      “If a man sins against his neighbor and is made to take an oath, and he comes and takes an oath before Your altar in this house, 
          23      then hear from heaven and act and judge Your servants, punishing the wicked by bringing his way on his own head and justifying the righteous by giving him according to his righteousness. 
          24      “If Your people Israel are defeated before an enemy because they have sinned against You, and they return to You and confess Your name, and pray and make supplication before You in this house, 
          25      then hear from heaven and forgive the sin of Your people Israel, and bring them back to the land which You have given to them and to their fathers. 
          26      “When the heavens are shut up and there is no rain because they have sinned against You, and they pray toward this place and confess Your name, and turn from their sin when You afflict them; 
          27      then hear in heaven and forgive the sin of Your servants and Your people Israel, indeed, teach them the good way in which they should walk. And send rain on Your land which You have given to Your people for an inheritance. 
          28      “If there is famine in the land, if there is pestilence, if there is blight or mildew, if there is locust or grasshopper, if their enemies besiege them in the land of their cities, whatever plague or whatever sickness there is, 
          29      whatever prayer or supplication is made by any man or by all Your people Israel, each knowing his own affliction and his own pain, and spreading his hands toward this house, 
          30      then hear from heaven Your dwelling place, and forgive, and render to each according to all his ways, whose heart You know for You alone know the hearts of the sons of men, 
          31      that they may fear You, to walk in Your ways as long as they live in the land which You have given to our fathers. 
          32      “Also concerning the foreigner who is not from Your people Israel, when he comes from a far country for Your great name’s sake and Your mighty hand and Your outstretched arm, when they come and pray toward this house, 
          33      then hear from heaven, from Your dwelling place, and do according to all for which the foreigner calls to You, in order that all the peoples of the earth may know Your name, and fear You as do Your people Israel, and that they may know that this house which I have built is called by Your name. 
          34      “When Your people go out to battle against their enemies, by whatever way You shall send them, and they pray to You toward this city which You have chosen and the house which I have built for Your name, 
          35      then hear from heaven their prayer and their supplication, and maintain their cause. 
          36      “When they sin against You (for there is no man who does not sin) and You are angry with them and deliver them to an enemy, so that they take them away captive to a land far off or near, 
          37      if they take thought in the land where they are taken captive, and repent and make supplication to You in the land of their captivity, saying, ‘We have sinned, we have committed iniquity and have acted wickedly’; 
          38      if they return to You with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their captivity, where they have been taken captive, and pray toward their land which You have given to their fathers and the city which You have chosen, and toward the house which I have built for Your name, 
          39      then hear from heaven, from Your dwelling place, their prayer and supplications, and maintain their cause and forgive Your people who have sinned against You. 
          40      “Now, O my God, I pray, let Your eyes be open and Your ears attentive to the prayer offered in this place. 
          41      “Now therefore arise, O LORD God, to Your resting place, You and the ark of Your might; let Your priests, O LORD God, be clothed with salvation and let Your godly ones rejoice in what is good. 
          42      “O LORD God, do not turn away the face of Your anointed; remember Your lovingkindness to Your servant David.” 




Chapter 7


The Shekinah Glory

          1      Now when Solomon had finished praying, fire came down from heaven and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices, and the glory of the LORD filled the house. 
          2      The priests could not enter into the house of the LORD because the glory of the LORD filled the LORD’S house. 
          3      All the sons of Israel, seeing the fire come down and the glory of the LORD upon the house, bowed down on the pavement with their faces to the ground, and they worshiped and gave praise to the LORD, saying, “Truly He is good, truly His lovingkindness is everlasting.” 

Sacrifices Offered

          4      Then the king and all the people offered sacrifice before the LORD. 
          5      King Solomon offered a sacrifice of 22,000 oxen and 120,000 sheep. Thus the king and all the people dedicated the house of God. 
          6      The priests stood at their posts, and the Levites also, with the instruments of music to the LORD, which King David had made for giving praise to the LORD—“for His lovingkindness is everlasting”—whenever he gave praise by their means, while the priests on the other side blew trumpets; and all Israel was standing. 
          7      Then Solomon consecrated the middle of the court that was before the house of the LORD, for there he offered the burnt offerings and the fat of the peace offerings because the bronze altar which Solomon had made was not able to contain the burnt offering, the grain offering and the fat. 

The Feast of Dedication

          8      So Solomon observed the feast at that time for seven days, and all Israel with him, a very great assembly who came from the entrance of Hamath to the brook of Egypt. 
          9      On the eighth day they held a solemn assembly, for the dedication of the altar they observed seven days and the feast seven days. 
          10      Then on the twenty-third day of the seventh month he sent the people to their tents, rejoicing and happy of heart because of the goodness that the LORD had shown to David and to Solomon and to His people Israel. 

God’s Promise and Warning

          11      Thus Solomon finished the house of the LORD and the king’s palace, and successfully completed all that he had planned on doing in the house of the LORD and in his palace. 
          12      Then the LORD appeared to Solomon at night and said to him, “I have heard your prayer and have chosen this place for Myself as a house of sacrifice. 
          13      “If I shut up the heavens so that there is no rain, or if I command the locust to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among My people, 
          14      and My people who are called by My name humble themselves and pray and seek My face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven, will forgive their sin and will heal their land. 
          15      “Now My eyes will be open and My ears attentive to the prayer offered in this place. 
          16      “For now I have chosen and consecrated this house that My name may be there forever, and My eyes and My heart will be there perpetually. 
          17      “As for you, if you walk before Me as your father David walked, even to do according to all that I have commanded you, and will keep My statutes and My ordinances, 
          18      then I will establish your royal throne as I covenanted with your father David, saying, ‘You shall not lack a man to be ruler in Israel.’ 
          19      “But if you turn away and forsake My statutes and My commandments which I have set before you, and go and serve other gods and worship them, 
          20      then I will uproot you from My land which I have given you, and this house which I have consecrated for My name I will cast out of My sight and I will make it a proverb and a byword among all peoples. 
          21      “As for this house, which was exalted, everyone who passes by it will be astonished and say, ‘Why has the LORD done thus to this land and to this house?’ 
          22      “And they will say, ‘Because they forsook the LORD, the God of their fathers who brought them from the land of Egypt, and they adopted other gods and worshiped them and served them; therefore He has brought all this adversity on them.’ ” 




Chapter 8


Solomon’s Activities and Accomplishments

          1      Now it came about at the end of the twenty years in which Solomon had built the house of the LORD and his own house 
          2      that he built the cities which Huram had given to him, and settled the sons of Israel there. 
          3      Then Solomon went to Hamath-zobah and captured it. 
          4      He built Tadmor in the wilderness and all the storage cities which he had built in Hamath. 
          5      He also built upper Beth-horon and lower Beth-horon, fortified cities with walls, gates and bars; 
          6      and Baalath and all the storage cities that Solomon had, and all the cities for his chariots and cities for his horsemen, and all that it pleased Solomon to build in Jerusalem, in Lebanon, and in all the land under his rule. 
          7      All of the people who were left of the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites and the Jebusites, who were not of Israel, 
          8      namely, from their descendants who were left after them in the land whom the sons of Israel had not destroyed, them Solomon raised as forced laborers to this day. 
          9      But Solomon did not make slaves for his work from the sons of Israel; they were men of war, his chief captains and commanders of his chariots and his horsemen. 
          10      These were the chief officers of King Solomon, two hundred and fifty who ruled over the people. 
          11      Then Solomon brought Pharaoh’s daughter up from the city of David to the house which he had built for her, for he said, “My wife shall not dwell in the house of David king of Israel, because the places are holy where the ark of the LORD has entered.” 
          12      Then Solomon offered burnt offerings to the LORD on the altar of the LORD which he had built before the porch; 
          13      and did so according to the daily rule, offering them up according to the commandment of Moses, for the sabbaths, the new moons and the three annual feasts—the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the Feast of Weeks and the Feast of Booths. 
          14      Now according to the ordinance of his father David, he appointed the divisions of the priests for their service, and the Levites for their duties of praise and ministering before the priests according to the daily rule, and the gatekeepers by their divisions at every gate; for David the man of God had so commanded. 
          15      And they did not depart from the commandment of the king to the priests and Levites in any manner or concerning the storehouses. 
          16      Thus all the work of Solomon was carried out from the day of the foundation of the house of the LORD, and until it was finished. So the house of the LORD was completed. 
          17      Then Solomon went to Ezion-geber and to Eloth on the seashore in the land of Edom. 
          18      And Huram by his servants sent him ships and servants who knew the sea; and they went with Solomon’s servants to Ophir, and took from there four hundred and fifty talents of gold and brought them to King Solomon. 




Chapter 9


Visit of the Queen of Sheba

          1      Now when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon, she came to Jerusalem to test Solomon with difficult questions. She had a very large retinue, with camels carrying spices and a large amount of gold and precious stones; and when she came to Solomon, she spoke with him about all that was on her heart. 
          2      Solomon answered all her questions; nothing was hidden from Solomon which he did not explain to her. 
          3      When the queen of Sheba had seen the wisdom of Solomon, the house which he had built, 
          4      the food at his table, the seating of his servants, the attendance of his ministers and their attire, his cupbearers and their attire, and his stairway by which he went up to the house of the LORD, she was breathless. 
          5      Then she said to the king, “It was a true report which I heard in my own land about your words and your wisdom. 
          6      “Nevertheless I did not believe their reports until I came and my eyes had seen it. And behold, the half of the greatness of your wisdom was not told me. You surpass the report that I heard. 
          7      “How blessed are your men, how blessed are these your servants who stand before you continually and hear your wisdom. 
          8      “Blessed be the LORD your God who delighted in you, setting you on His throne as king for the LORD your God; because your God loved Israel establishing them forever, therefore He made you king over them, to do justice and righteousness.” 
          9      Then she gave the king one hundred and twenty talents of gold and a very great amount of spices and precious stones; there had never been spice like that which the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon. 
          10      The servants of Huram and the servants of Solomon who brought gold from Ophir, also brought algum trees and precious stones. 
          11      From the algum trees the king made steps for the house of the LORD and for the king’s palace, and lyres and harps for the singers; and none like that was seen before in the land of Judah. 
          12      King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all her desire which she requested besides a return for what she had brought to the king. Then she turned and went to her own land with her servants. 

Solomon’s Wealth and Power

          13      Now the weight of gold which came to Solomon in one year was 666 talents of gold, 
          14      besides that which the traders and merchants brought; and all the kings of Arabia and the governors of the country brought gold and silver to Solomon. 
          15      King Solomon made 200 large shields of beaten gold, using 600 shekels of beaten gold on each large shield. 
          16      He made 300 shields of beaten gold, using three hundred shekels of gold on each shield, and the king put them in the house of the forest of Lebanon. 
          17      Moreover, the king made a great throne of ivory and overlaid it with pure gold. 
          18      There were six steps to the throne and a footstool in gold attached to the throne, and arms on each side of the seat, and two lions standing beside the arms. 
          19      Twelve lions were standing there on the six steps on the one side and on the other; nothing like it was made for any other kingdom. 
          20      All King Solomon’s drinking vessels were of gold, and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold; silver was not considered valuable in the days of Solomon. 
          21      For the king had ships which went to Tarshish with the servants of Huram; once every three years the ships of Tarshish came bringing gold and silver, ivory and apes and peacocks. 
          22      So King Solomon became greater than all the kings of the earth in riches and wisdom. 
          23      And all the kings of the earth were seeking the presence of Solomon, to hear his wisdom which God had put in his heart. 
          24      They brought every man his gift, articles of silver and gold, garments, weapons, spices, horses and mules, so much year by year. 
          25      Now Solomon had 4,000 stalls for horses and chariots and 12,000 horsemen, and he stationed them in the chariot cities and with the king in Jerusalem. 
          26      He was the ruler over all the kings from the Euphrates River even to the land of the Philistines, and as far as the border of Egypt. 
          27      The king made silver as common as stones in Jerusalem, and he made cedars as plentiful as sycamore trees that are in the lowland. 
          28      And they were bringing horses for Solomon from Egypt and from all countries. 
          29      Now the rest of the acts of Solomon, from first to last, are they not written in the records of Nathan the prophet, and in the prophecy of Ahijah the Shilonite, and in the visions of Iddo the seer concerning Jeroboam the son of Nebat? 
          30      Solomon reigned forty years in Jerusalem over all Israel. 

Death of Solomon

          31      And Solomon slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of his father David; and his son Rehoboam reigned in his place. 




Chapter 10


Rehoboam’s Reign of Folly

          1      Then Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king. 
          2      When Jeroboam the son of Nebat heard of it (for he was in Egypt where he had fled from the presence of King Solomon), Jeroboam returned from Egypt. 
          3      So they sent and summoned him. When Jeroboam and all Israel came, they spoke to Rehoboam, saying, 
          4      “Your father made our yoke hard; now therefore lighten the hard service of your father and his heavy yoke which he put on us, and we will serve you.” 
          5      He said to them, “Return to me again in three days.” So the people departed. 
          6      Then King Rehoboam consulted with the elders who had served his father Solomon while he was still alive, saying, “How do you counsel me to answer this people?” 
          7      They spoke to him, saying, “If you will be kind to this people and please them and speak good words to them, then they will be your servants forever.” 
          8      But he forsook the counsel of the elders which they had given him, and consulted with the young men who grew up with him and served him. 
          9      So he said to them, “What counsel do you give that we may answer this people, who have spoken to me, saying, ‘Lighten the yoke which your father put on us’?” 
          10      The young men who grew up with him spoke to him, saying, “Thus you shall say to the people who spoke to you, saying, ‘Your father made our yoke heavy, but you make it lighter for us.’ Thus you shall say to them, ‘My little finger is thicker than my father’s loins! 
          11      ‘Whereas my father loaded you with a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke; my father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions.’ ” 
          12      So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam on the third day as the king had directed, saying, “Return to me on the third day.” 
          13      The king answered them harshly, and King Rehoboam forsook the counsel of the elders. 
          14      He spoke to them according to the advice of the young men, saying, “My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to it; my father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions.” 
          15      So the king did not listen to the people, for it was a turn of events from God that the LORD might establish His word, which He spoke through Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat. 
          16      When all Israel saw that the king did not listen to them the people answered the king, saying, 
         “What portion do we have in David? 
         We have no inheritance in the son of Jesse. 
         Every man to your tents, O Israel; 
         Now look after your own house, David.” 
    So all Israel departed to their tents. 
          17      But as for the sons of Israel who lived in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them. 
          18      Then King Rehoboam sent Hadoram, who was over the forced labor, and the sons of Israel stoned him to death. And King Rehoboam made haste to mount his chariot to flee to Jerusalem. 
          19      So Israel has been in rebellion against the house of David to this day. 




Chapter 11


Rehoboam Reigns over Judah and Builds Cities

          1      Now when Rehoboam had come to Jerusalem, he assembled the house of Judah and Benjamin, 180,000 chosen men who were warriors, to fight against Israel to restore the kingdom to Rehoboam. 
          2      But the word of the LORD came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying, 
          3      “Speak to Rehoboam the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to all Israel in Judah and Benjamin, saying, 
          4      ‘Thus says the LORD, “You shall not go up or fight against your relatives; return every man to his house, for this thing is from Me.” ’ ” So they listened to the words of the LORD and returned from going against Jeroboam. 
          5      Rehoboam lived in Jerusalem and built cities for defense in Judah. 
          6      Thus he built Bethlehem, Etam, Tekoa, 
          7      Beth-zur, Soco, Adullam, 
          8      Gath, Mareshah, Ziph, 
          9      Adoraim, Lachish, Azekah, 
          10      Zorah, Aijalon and Hebron, which are fortified cities in Judah and in Benjamin. 
          11      He also strengthened the fortresses and put officers in them and stores of food, oil and wine. 
          12      He put shields and spears in every city and strengthened them greatly. So he held Judah and Benjamin. 
          13      Moreover, the priests and the Levites who were in all Israel stood with him from all their districts. 

Jeroboam Appoints False Priests

          14      For the Levites left their pasture lands and their property and came to Judah and Jerusalem, for Jeroboam and his sons had excluded them from serving as priests to the LORD. 
          15      He set up priests of his own for the high places, for the satyrs and for the calves which he had made. 
          16      Those from all the tribes of Israel who set their hearts on seeking the LORD God of Israel followed them to Jerusalem, to sacrifice to the LORD God of their fathers. 
          17      They strengthened the kingdom of Judah and supported Rehoboam the son of Solomon for three years, for they walked in the way of David and Solomon for three years. 

Rehoboam’s Family

          18      Then Rehoboam took as a wife Mahalath the daughter of Jerimoth the son of David and of Abihail the daughter of Eliab the son of Jesse, 
          19      and she bore him sons: Jeush, Shemariah and Zaham. 
          20      After her he took Maacah the daughter of Absalom, and she bore him Abijah, Attai, Ziza and Shelomith. 
          21      Rehoboam loved Maacah the daughter of Absalom more than all his other wives and concubines. For he had taken eighteen wives and sixty concubines and fathered twenty-eight sons and sixty daughters. 
          22      Rehoboam appointed Abijah the son of Maacah as head and leader among his brothers, for he intended to make him king. 
          23      He acted wisely and distributed some of his sons through all the territories of Judah and Benjamin to all the fortified cities, and he gave them food in abundance. And he sought many wives for them. 




Chapter 12


Shishak of Egypt Invades Judah

          1      When the kingdom of Rehoboam was established and strong, he and all Israel with him forsook the law of the LORD. 
          2      And it came about in King Rehoboam’s fifth year, because they had been unfaithful to the LORD, that Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem 
          3      with 1,200 chariots and 60,000 horsemen. And the people who came with him from Egypt were without number: the Lubim, the Sukkiim and the Ethiopians. 
          4      He captured the fortified cities of Judah and came as far as Jerusalem. 
          5      Then Shemaiah the prophet came to Rehoboam and the princes of Judah who had gathered at Jerusalem because of Shishak, and he said to them, “Thus says the LORD, ‘You have forsaken Me, so I also have forsaken you to Shishak.’ ” 
          6      So the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves and said, “The LORD is righteous.” 
          7      When the LORD saw that they humbled themselves, the word of the LORD came to Shemaiah, saying, “They have humbled themselves so I will not destroy them, but I will grant them some measure of deliverance, and My wrath shall not be poured out on Jerusalem by means of Shishak. 
          8      “But they will become his slaves so that they may learn the difference between My service and the service of the kingdoms of the countries.” 

Plunder Impoverishes Judah

          9      So Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, and took the treasures of the house of the LORD and the treasures of the king’s palace. He took everything; he even took the golden shields which Solomon had made. 
          10      Then King Rehoboam made shields of bronze in their place and committed them to the care of the commanders of the guard who guarded the door of the king’s house. 
          11      As often as the king entered the house of the LORD, the guards came and carried them and then brought them back into the guards’ room. 
          12      And when he humbled himself, the anger of the LORD turned away from him, so as not to destroy him completely; and also conditions were good in Judah. 
          13      So King Rehoboam strengthened himself in Jerusalem and reigned. Now Rehoboam was forty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD had chosen from all the tribes of Israel, to put His name there. And his mother’s name was Naamah the Ammonitess. 
          14      He did evil because he did not set his heart to seek the LORD. 
          15      Now the acts of Rehoboam, from first to last, are they not written in the records of Shemaiah the prophet and of Iddo the seer, according to genealogical enrollment? And there were wars between Rehoboam and Jeroboam continually. 
          16      And Rehoboam slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David; and his son Abijah became king in his place. 




Chapter 13


Abijah Succeeds Rehoboam

          1      In the eighteenth year of King Jeroboam, Abijah became king over Judah. 
          2      He reigned three years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Micaiah the daughter of Uriel of Gibeah. 
    Now there was war between Abijah and Jeroboam. 
          3      Abijah began the battle with an army of valiant warriors, 400,000 chosen men, while Jeroboam drew up in battle formation against him with 800,000 chosen men who were valiant warriors. 

Civil War

          4      Then Abijah stood on Mount Zemaraim, which is in the hill country of Ephraim, and said, “Listen to me, Jeroboam and all Israel: 
          5      “Do you not know that the LORD God of Israel gave the rule over Israel forever to David and his sons by a covenant of salt? 
          6      “Yet Jeroboam the son of Nebat, the servant of Solomon the son of David, rose up and rebelled against his master, 
          7      and worthless men gathered about him, scoundrels, who proved too strong for Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, when he was young and timid and could not hold his own against them. 
          8      “So now you intend to resist the kingdom of the LORD through the sons of David, being a great multitude and having with you the golden calves which Jeroboam made for gods for you. 
          9      “Have you not driven out the priests of the LORD, the sons of Aaron and the Levites, and made for yourselves priests like the peoples of other lands? Whoever comes to consecrate himself with a young bull and seven rams, even he may become a priest of what are no gods. 
          10      “But as for us, the LORD is our God, and we have not forsaken Him; and the sons of Aaron are ministering to the LORD as priests, and the Levites attend to their work. 
          11      “Every morning and evening they burn to the LORD burnt offerings and fragrant incense, and the showbread is set on the clean table, and the golden lampstand with its lamps is ready to light every evening; for we keep the charge of the LORD our God, but you have forsaken Him. 
          12      “Now behold, God is with us at our head and His priests with the signal trumpets to sound the alarm against you. O sons of Israel, do not fight against the LORD God of your fathers, for you will not succeed.” 
          13      But Jeroboam had set an ambush to come from the rear, so that Israel was in front of Judah and the ambush was behind them. 
          14      When Judah turned around, behold, they were attacked both front and rear; so they cried to the LORD, and the priests blew the trumpets. 
          15      Then the men of Judah raised a war cry, and when the men of Judah raised the war cry, then it was that God routed Jeroboam and all Israel before Abijah and Judah. 
          16      When the sons of Israel fled before Judah, God gave them into their hand. 
          17      Abijah and his people defeated them with a great slaughter, so that 500,000 chosen men of Israel fell slain. 
          18      Thus the sons of Israel were subdued at that time, and the sons of Judah conquered because they trusted in the LORD, the God of their fathers. 
          19      Abijah pursued Jeroboam and captured from him several cities, Bethel with its villages, Jeshanah with its villages and Ephron with its villages. 

Death of Jeroboam

          20      Jeroboam did not again recover strength in the days of Abijah; and the LORD struck him and he died. 
          21      But Abijah became powerful; and took fourteen wives to himself, and became the father of twenty-two sons and sixteen daughters. 
          22      Now the rest of the acts of Abijah, and his ways and his words are written in the treatise of the prophet Iddo. 




Chapter 14


Asa Succeeds Abijah in Judah

          1      So Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David, and his son Asa became king in his place. The land was undisturbed for ten years during his days. 
          2      Asa did good and right in the sight of the LORD his God, 
          3      for he removed the foreign altars and high places, tore down the sacred pillars, cut down the Asherim, 
          4      and commanded Judah to seek the LORD God of their fathers and to observe the law and the commandment. 
          5      He also removed the high places and the incense altars from all the cities of Judah. And the kingdom was undisturbed under him. 
          6      He built fortified cities in Judah, since the land was undisturbed, and there was no one at war with him during those years, because the LORD had given him rest. 
          7      For he said to Judah, “Let us build these cities and surround them with walls and towers, gates and bars. The land is still ours because we have sought the LORD our God; we have sought Him, and He has given us rest on every side.” So they built and prospered. 
          8      Now Asa had an army of 300,000 from Judah, bearing large shields and spears, and 280,000 from Benjamin, bearing shields and wielding bows; all of them were valiant warriors. 
          9      Now Zerah the Ethiopian came out against them with an army of a million men and 300 chariots, and he came to Mareshah. 
          10      So Asa went out to meet him, and they drew up in battle formation in the valley of Zephathah at Mareshah. 
          11      Then Asa called to the LORD his God and said, “LORD, there is no one besides You to help in the battle between the powerful and those who have no strength; so help us, O LORD our God, for we trust in You, and in Your name have come against this multitude. O LORD, You are our God; let not man prevail against You.” 
          12      So the LORD routed the Ethiopians before Asa and before Judah, and the Ethiopians fled. 
          13      Asa and the people who were with him pursued them as far as Gerar; and so many Ethiopians fell that they could not recover, for they were shattered before the LORD and before His army. And they carried away very much plunder. 
          14      They destroyed all the cities around Gerar, for the dread of the LORD had fallen on them; and they despoiled all the cities, for there was much plunder in them. 
          15      They also struck down those who owned livestock, and they carried away large numbers of sheep and camels. Then they returned to Jerusalem. 




Chapter 15


The Prophet Azariah Warns Asa

          1      Now the Spirit of God came on Azariah the son of Oded, 
          2      and he went out to meet Asa and said to him, “Listen to me, Asa, and all Judah and Benjamin: the LORD is with you when you are with Him. And if you seek Him, He will let you find Him; but if you forsake Him, He will forsake you. 
          3      “For many days Israel was without the true God and without a teaching priest and without law. 
          4      “But in their distress they turned to the LORD God of Israel, and they sought Him, and He let them find Him. 
          5      “In those times there was no peace to him who went out or to him who came in, for many disturbances afflicted all the inhabitants of the lands. 
          6      “Nation was crushed by nation, and city by city, for God troubled them with every kind of distress. 
          7      “But you, be strong and do not lose courage, for there is reward for your work.” 

Asa’s Reforms

          8      Now when Asa heard these words and the prophecy which Azariah the son of Oded the prophet spoke, he took courage and removed the abominable idols from all the land of Judah and Benjamin and from the cities which he had captured in the hill country of Ephraim. He then restored the altar of the LORD which was in front of the porch of the LORD. 
          9      He gathered all Judah and Benjamin and those from Ephraim, Manasseh and Simeon who resided with them, for many defected to him from Israel when they saw that the LORD his God was with him. 
          10      So they assembled at Jerusalem in the third month of the fifteenth year of Asa’s reign. 
          11      They sacrificed to the LORD that day 700 oxen and 7,000 sheep from the spoil they had brought. 
          12      They entered into the covenant to seek the LORD God of their fathers with all their heart and soul; 
          13      and whoever would not seek the LORD God of Israel should be put to death, whether small or great, man or woman. 
          14      Moreover, they made an oath to the LORD with a loud voice, with shouting, with trumpets and with horns. 
          15      All Judah rejoiced concerning the oath, for they had sworn with their whole heart and had sought Him earnestly, and He let them find Him. So the LORD gave them rest on every side. 
          16      He also removed Maacah, the mother of King Asa, from the position of queen mother, because she had made a horrid image as an Asherah, and Asa cut down her horrid image, crushed it and burned it at the brook Kidron. 
          17      But the high places were not removed from Israel; nevertheless Asa’s heart was blameless all his days. 
          18      He brought into the house of God the dedicated things of his father and his own dedicated things: silver and gold and utensils. 
          19      And there was no more war until the thirty-fifth year of Asa’s reign. 




Chapter 16


Asa Wars against Baasha

          1      In the thirty-sixth year of Asa’s reign Baasha king of Israel came up against Judah and fortified Ramah in order to prevent anyone from going out or coming in to Asa king of Judah. 
          2      Then Asa brought out silver and gold from the treasuries of the house of the LORD and the king’s house, and sent them to Ben-hadad king of Aram, who lived in Damascus, saying, 
          3      “Let there be a treaty between you and me, as between my father and your father. Behold, I have sent you silver and gold; go, break your treaty with Baasha king of Israel so that he will withdraw from me.” 
          4      So Ben-hadad listened to King Asa and sent the commanders of his armies against the cities of Israel, and they conquered Ijon, Dan, Abel-maim and all the store cities of Naphtali. 
          5      When Baasha heard of it, he ceased fortifying Ramah and stopped his work. 
          6      Then King Asa brought all Judah, and they carried away the stones of Ramah and its timber with which Baasha had been building, and with them he fortified Geba and Mizpah. 

Asa Imprisons the Prophet

          7      At that time Hanani the seer came to Asa king of Judah and said to him, “Because you have relied on the king of Aram and have not relied on the LORD your God, therefore the army of the king of Aram has escaped out of your hand. 
          8      “Were not the Ethiopians and the Lubim an immense army with very many chariots and horsemen? Yet because you relied on the LORD, He delivered them into your hand. 
          9      “For the eyes of the LORD move to and fro throughout the earth that He may strongly support those whose heart is completely His. You have acted foolishly in this. Indeed, from now on you will surely have wars.” 
          10      Then Asa was angry with the seer and put him in prison, for he was enraged at him for this. And Asa oppressed some of the people at the same time. 
          11      Now, the acts of Asa from first to last, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel. 
          12      In the thirty-ninth year of his reign Asa became diseased in his feet. His disease was severe, yet even in his disease he did not seek the LORD, but the physicians. 
          13      So Asa slept with his fathers, having died in the forty-first year of his reign. 
          14      They buried him in his own tomb which he had cut out for himself in the city of David, and they laid him in the resting place which he had filled with spices of various kinds blended by the perfumers’ art; and they made a very great fire for him. 




Chapter 17


Jehoshaphat Succeeds Asa

          1      Jehoshaphat his son then became king in his place, and made his position over Israel firm. 
          2      He placed troops in all the fortified cities of Judah, and set garrisons in the land of Judah and in the cities of Ephraim which Asa his father had captured. 

His Good Reign

          3      The LORD was with Jehoshaphat because he followed the example of his father David’s earlier days and did not seek the Baals, 
          4      but sought the God of his father, followed His commandments, and did not act as Israel did. 
          5      So the LORD established the kingdom in his control, and all Judah brought tribute to Jehoshaphat, and he had great riches and honor. 
          6      He took great pride in the ways of the LORD and again removed the high places and the Asherim from Judah. 
          7      Then in the third year of his reign he sent his officials, Ben-hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel and Micaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah; 
          8      and with them the Levites, Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah, Asahel, Shemiramoth, Jehonathan, Adonijah, Tobijah and Tobadonijah, the Levites; and with them Elishama and Jehoram, the priests. 
          9      They taught in Judah, having the book of the law of the LORD with them; and they went throughout all the cities of Judah and taught among the people. 
          10      Now the dread of the LORD was on all the kingdoms of the lands which were around Judah, so that they did not make war against Jehoshaphat. 
          11      Some of the Philistines brought gifts and silver as tribute to Jehoshaphat; the Arabians also brought him flocks, 7,700 rams and 7,700 male goats. 
          12      So Jehoshaphat grew greater and greater, and he built fortresses and store cities in Judah. 
          13      He had large supplies in the cities of Judah, and warriors, valiant men, in Jerusalem. 
          14      This was their muster according to their fathers’ households: of Judah, commanders of thousands, Adnah was the commander, and with him 300,000 valiant warriors; 
          15      and next to him was Johanan the commander, and with him 280,000; 
          16      and next to him Amasiah the son of Zichri, who volunteered for the LORD, and with him 200,000 valiant warriors; 
          17      and of Benjamin, Eliada a valiant warrior, and with him 200,000 armed with bow and shield; 
          18      and next to him Jehozabad, and with him 180,000 equipped for war. 
          19      These are they who served the king, apart from those whom the king put in the fortified cities through all Judah. 




Chapter 18


Jehoshaphat Allies with Ahab

          1      Now Jehoshaphat had great riches and honor; and he allied himself by marriage with Ahab. 
          2      Some years later he went down to visit Ahab at Samaria. And Ahab slaughtered many sheep and oxen for him and the people who were with him, and induced him to go up against Ramoth-gilead. 
          3      Ahab king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat king of Judah, “Will you go with me against Ramoth-gilead?” And he said to him, “I am as you are, and my people as your people, and we will be with you in the battle.” 
          4      Moreover, Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, “Please inquire first for the word of the LORD.” 
          5      Then the king of Israel assembled the prophets, four hundred men, and said to them, “Shall we go against Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I refrain?” And they said, “Go up, for God will give it into the hand of the king.” 
          6      But Jehoshaphat said, “Is there not yet a prophet of the LORD here that we may inquire of him?” 
          7      The king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “There is yet one man by whom we may inquire of the LORD, but I hate him, for he never prophesies good concerning me but always evil. He is Micaiah, son of Imla.” But Jehoshaphat said, “Let not the king say so.” 

Ahab’s False Prophets Assure Victory

          8      Then the king of Israel called an officer and said, “Bring quickly Micaiah, Imla’s son.” 
          9      Now the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah were sitting each on his throne, arrayed in their robes, and they were sitting at the threshing floor at the entrance of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets were prophesying before them. 
          10      Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made horns of iron for himself and said, “Thus says the LORD, ‘With these you shall gore the Arameans until they are consumed.’ ” 
          11      All the prophets were prophesying thus, saying, “Go up to Ramoth-gilead and succeed, for the LORD will give it into the hand of the king.” 

Micaiah Brings Word from God

          12      Then the messenger who went to summon Micaiah spoke to him saying, “Behold, the words of the prophets are uniformly favorable to the king. So please let your word be like one of them and speak favorably.” 
          13      But Micaiah said, “As the LORD lives, what my God says, that I will speak.” 
          14      When he came to the king, the king said to him, “Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I refrain?” He said, “Go up and succeed, for they will be given into your hand.” 
          15      Then the king said to him, “How many times must I adjure you to speak to me nothing but the truth in the name of the LORD?” 
          16      So he said, 
         “I saw all Israel 
         Scattered on the mountains, 
         Like sheep which have no shepherd; 
         And the LORD said, 
         ‘These have no master. 
         Let each of them return to his house in peace.’ ” 
          17      Then the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “Did I not tell you that he would not prophesy good concerning me, but evil?” 
          18      Micaiah said, “Therefore, hear the word of the LORD. I saw the LORD sitting on His throne, and all the host of heaven standing on His right and on His left. 
          19      “The LORD said, ‘Who will entice Ahab king of Israel to go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead?’ And one said this while another said that. 
          20      “Then a spirit came forward and stood before the LORD and said, ‘I will entice him.’ And the LORD said to him, ‘How?’ 
          21      “He said, ‘I will go and be a deceiving spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.’ Then He said, ‘You are to entice him and prevail also. Go and do so.’ 
          22      “Now therefore, behold, the LORD has put a deceiving spirit in the mouth of these your prophets, for the LORD has proclaimed disaster against you.” 
          23      Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near and struck Micaiah on the cheek and said, “How did the Spirit of the LORD pass from me to speak to you?” 
          24      Micaiah said, “Behold, you will see on that day when you enter an inner room to hide yourself.” 
          25      Then the king of Israel said, “Take Micaiah and return him to Amon the governor of the city and to Joash the king’s son; 
          26      and say, ‘Thus says the king, “Put this man in prison and feed him sparingly with bread and water until I return safely.” ’ ” 
          27      Micaiah said, “If you indeed return safely, the LORD has not spoken by me.” And he said, “Listen, all you people.” 

Ahab’s Defeat and Death

          28      So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah went up against Ramoth-gilead. 
          29      The king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “I will disguise myself and go into battle, but you put on your robes.” So the king of Israel disguised himself, and they went into battle. 
          30      Now the king of Aram had commanded the captains of his chariots, saying, “Do not fight with small or great, but with the king of Israel alone.” 
          31      So when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, they said, “It is the king of Israel,” and they turned aside to fight against him. But Jehoshaphat cried out, and the LORD helped him, and God diverted them from him. 
          32      When the captains of the chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back from pursuing him. 
          33      A certain man drew his bow at random and struck the king of Israel in a joint of the armor. So he said to the driver of the chariot, “Turn around and take me out of the fight, for I am severely wounded.” 
          34      The battle raged that day, and the king of Israel propped himself up in his chariot in front of the Arameans until the evening; and at sunset he died. 




Chapter 19


Jehu Rebukes Jehoshaphat

          1      Then Jehoshaphat the king of Judah returned in safety to his house in Jerusalem. 
          2      Jehu the son of Hanani the seer went out to meet him and said to King Jehoshaphat, “Should you help the wicked and love those who hate the LORD and so bring wrath on yourself from the LORD? 
          3      “But there is some good in you, for you have removed the Asheroth from the land and you have set your heart to seek God.” 
          4      So Jehoshaphat lived in Jerusalem and went out again among the people from Beersheba to the hill country of Ephraim and brought them back to the LORD, the God of their fathers. 

Reforms Instituted

          5      He appointed judges in the land in all the fortified cities of Judah, city by city. 
          6      He said to the judges, “Consider what you are doing, for you do not judge for man but for the LORD who is with you when you render judgment. 
          7      “Now then let the fear of the LORD be upon you; be very careful what you do, for the LORD our God will have no part in unrighteousness or partiality or the taking of a bribe.” 
          8      In Jerusalem also Jehoshaphat appointed some of the Levites and priests, and some of the heads of the fathers’ households of Israel, for the judgment of the LORD and to judge disputes among the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
          9      Then he charged them saying, “Thus you shall do in the fear of the LORD, faithfully and wholeheartedly. 
          10      “Whenever any dispute comes to you from your brethren who live in their cities, between blood and blood, between law and commandment, statutes and ordinances, you shall warn them so that they may not be guilty before the LORD, and wrath may not come on you and your brethren. Thus you shall do and you will not be guilty. 
          11      “Behold, Amariah the chief priest will be over you in all that pertains to the LORD, and Zebadiah the son of Ishmael, the ruler of the house of Judah, in all that pertains to the king. Also the Levites shall be officers before you. Act resolutely, and the LORD be with the upright.” 




Chapter 20


Judah Invaded

          1      Now it came about after this that the sons of Moab and the sons of Ammon, together with some of the Meunites, came to make war against Jehoshaphat. 
          2      Then some came and reported to Jehoshaphat, saying, “A great multitude is coming against you from beyond the sea, out of Aram and behold, they are in Hazazon-tamar (that is Engedi).” 
          3      Jehoshaphat was afraid and turned his attention to seek the LORD, and proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah. 
          4      So Judah gathered together to seek help from the LORD; they even came from all the cities of Judah to seek the LORD. 

Jehoshaphat’s Prayer

          5      Then Jehoshaphat stood in the assembly of Judah and Jerusalem, in the house of the LORD before the new court, 
          6      and he said, “O LORD, the God of our fathers, are You not God in the heavens? And are You not ruler over all the kingdoms of the nations? Power and might are in Your hand so that no one can stand against You. 
          7      “Did You not, O our God, drive out the inhabitants of this land before Your people Israel and give it to the descendants of Abraham Your friend forever? 
          8      “They have lived in it, and have built You a sanctuary there for Your name, saying, 
          9      ‘Should evil come upon us, the sword, or judgment, or pestilence, or famine, we will stand before this house and before You (for Your name is in this house) and cry to You in our distress, and You will hear and deliver us.’ 
          10      “Now behold, the sons of Ammon and Moab and Mount Seir, whom You did not let Israel invade when they came out of the land of Egypt (they turned aside from them and did not destroy them), 
          11      see how they are rewarding us by coming to drive us out from Your possession which You have given us as an inheritance. 
          12      “O our God, will You not judge them? For we are powerless before this great multitude who are coming against us; nor do we know what to do, but our eyes are on You.” 
          13      All Judah was standing before the LORD, with their infants, their wives and their children. 

Jahaziel Answers the Prayer

          14      Then in the midst of the assembly the Spirit of the LORD came upon Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, the Levite of the sons of Asaph; 
          15      and he said, “Listen, all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem and King Jehoshaphat: thus says the LORD to you, ‘Do not fear or be dismayed because of this great multitude, for the battle is not yours but God’s. 
          16      ‘Tomorrow go down against them. Behold, they will come up by the ascent of Ziz, and you will find them at the end of the valley in front of the wilderness of Jeruel. 
          17      ‘You need not fight in this battle; station yourselves, stand and see the salvation of the LORD on your behalf, O Judah and Jerusalem.’ Do not fear or be dismayed; tomorrow go out to face them, for the LORD is with you.” 
          18      Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground, and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell down before the LORD, worshiping the LORD. 
          19      The Levites, from the sons of the Kohathites and of the sons of the Korahites, stood up to praise the LORD God of Israel, with a very loud voice. 

Enemies Destroy Themselves

          20      They rose early in the morning and went out to the wilderness of Tekoa; and when they went out, Jehoshaphat stood and said, “Listen to me, O Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem, put your trust in the LORD your God and you will be established. Put your trust in His prophets and succeed.” 
          21      When he had consulted with the people, he appointed those who sang to the LORD and those who praised Him in holy attire, as they went out before the army and said, “Give thanks to the LORD, for His lovingkindness is everlasting.” 
          22      When they began singing and praising, the LORD set ambushes against the sons of Ammon, Moab and Mount Seir, who had come against Judah; so they were routed. 
          23      For the sons of Ammon and Moab rose up against the inhabitants of Mount Seir destroying them completely; and when they had finished with the inhabitants of Seir, they helped to destroy one another. 
          24      When Judah came to the lookout of the wilderness, they looked toward the multitude, and behold, they were corpses lying on the ground, and no one had escaped. 
          25      When Jehoshaphat and his people came to take their spoil, they found much among them, including goods, garments and valuable things which they took for themselves, more than they could carry. And they were three days taking the spoil because there was so much. 

Triumphant Return to Jerusalem

          26      Then on the fourth day they assembled in the valley of Beracah, for there they blessed the LORD. Therefore they have named that place “The Valley of Beracah” until today. 
          27      Every man of Judah and Jerusalem returned with Jehoshaphat at their head, returning to Jerusalem with joy, for the LORD had made them to rejoice over their enemies. 
          28      They came to Jerusalem with harps, lyres and trumpets to the house of the LORD. 
          29      And the dread of God was on all the kingdoms of the lands when they heard that the LORD had fought against the enemies of Israel. 
          30      So the kingdom of Jehoshaphat was at peace, for his God gave him rest on all sides. 
          31      Now Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah. He was thirty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem twenty-five years. And his mother’s name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi. 
          32      He walked in the way of his father Asa and did not depart from it, doing right in the sight of the LORD. 
          33      The high places, however, were not removed; the people had not yet directed their hearts to the God of their fathers. 
          34      Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, first to last, behold, they are written in the annals of Jehu the son of Hanani, which is recorded in the Book of the Kings of Israel. 

Alliance Displeases God

          35      After this Jehoshaphat king of Judah allied himself with Ahaziah king of Israel. He acted wickedly in so doing. 
          36      So he allied himself with him to make ships to go to Tarshish, and they made the ships in Ezion-geber. 
          37      Then Eliezer the son of Dodavahu of Mareshah prophesied against Jehoshaphat saying, “Because you have allied yourself with Ahaziah, the LORD has destroyed your works.” So the ships were broken and could not go to Tarshish. 




Chapter 21


Jehoram Succeeds Jehoshaphat in Judah

          1      Then Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David, and Jehoram his son became king in his place. 
          2      He had brothers, the sons of Jehoshaphat: Azariah, Jehiel, Zechariah, Azaryahu, Michael and Shephatiah. All these were the sons of Jehoshaphat king of Israel. 
          3      Their father gave them many gifts of silver, gold and precious things, with fortified cities in Judah, but he gave the kingdom to Jehoram because he was the firstborn. 
          4      Now when Jehoram had taken over the kingdom of his father and made himself secure, he killed all his brothers with the sword, and some of the rulers of Israel also. 
          5      Jehoram was thirty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem. 
          6      He walked in the way of the kings of Israel, just as the house of Ahab did (for Ahab’s daughter was his wife), and he did evil in the sight of the LORD. 
          7      Yet the LORD was not willing to destroy the house of David because of the covenant which He had made with David, and since He had promised to give a lamp to him and his sons forever. 

Revolt against Judah

          8      In his days Edom revolted against the rule of Judah and set up a king over themselves. 
          9      Then Jehoram crossed over with his commanders and all his chariots with him. And he arose by night and struck down the Edomites who were surrounding him and the commanders of the chariots. 
          10      So Edom revolted against Judah to this day. Then Libnah revolted at the same time against his rule, because he had forsaken the LORD God of his fathers. 
          11      Moreover, he made high places in the mountains of Judah, and caused the inhabitants of Jerusalem to play the harlot and led Judah astray. 
          12      Then a letter came to him from Elijah the prophet saying, “Thus says the LORD God of your father David, ‘Because you have not walked in the ways of Jehoshaphat your father and the ways of Asa king of Judah, 
          13      but have walked in the way of the kings of Israel, and have caused Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to play the harlot as the house of Ahab played the harlot, and you have also killed your brothers, your own family, who were better than you, 
          14      behold, the LORD is going to strike your people, your sons, your wives and all your possessions with a great calamity; 
          15      and you will suffer severe sickness, a disease of your bowels, until your bowels come out because of the sickness, day by day.’ ” 
          16      Then the LORD stirred up against Jehoram the spirit of the Philistines and the Arabs who bordered the Ethiopians; 
          17      and they came against Judah and invaded it, and carried away all the possessions found in the king’s house together with his sons and his wives, so that no son was left to him except Jehoahaz, the youngest of his sons. 
          18      So after all this the LORD smote him in his bowels with an incurable sickness. 
          19      Now it came about in the course of time, at the end of two years, that his bowels came out because of his sickness and he died in great pain. And his people made no fire for him like the fire for his fathers. 
          20      He was thirty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem eight years; and he departed with no one’s regret, and they buried him in the city of David, but not in the tombs of the kings. 




Chapter 22


Ahaziah Succeeds Jehoram in Judah

          1      Then the inhabitants of Jerusalem made Ahaziah, his youngest son, king in his place, for the band of men who came with the Arabs to the camp had slain all the older sons. So Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah began to reign. 
          2      Ahaziah was twenty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Athaliah, the granddaughter of Omri. 
          3      He also walked in the ways of the house of Ahab, for his mother was his counselor to do wickedly. 
          4      He did evil in the sight of the LORD like the house of Ahab, for they were his counselors after the death of his father, to his destruction. 

Ahaziah Allies with Jehoram of Israel

          5      He also walked according to their counsel, and went with Jehoram the son of Ahab king of Israel to wage war against Hazael king of Aram at Ramoth-gilead. But the Arameans wounded Joram. 
          6      So he returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which they had inflicted on him at Ramah, when he fought against Hazael king of Aram. And Ahaziah, the son of Jehoram king of Judah, went down to see Jehoram the son of Ahab in Jezreel, because he was sick. 
          7      Now the destruction of Ahaziah was from God, in that he went to Joram. For when he came, he went out with Jehoram against Jehu the son of Nimshi, whom the LORD had anointed to cut off the house of Ahab. 

Jehu Murders Princes of Judah

          8      It came about when Jehu was executing judgment on the house of Ahab, he found the princes of Judah and the sons of Ahaziah’s brothers ministering to Ahaziah, and slew them. 
          9      He also sought Ahaziah, and they caught him while he was hiding in Samaria; they brought him to Jehu, put him to death and buried him. For they said, “He is the son of Jehoshaphat, who sought the LORD with all his heart.” So there was no one of the house of Ahaziah to retain the power of the kingdom. 
          10      Now when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she rose and destroyed all the royal offspring of the house of Judah. 
          11      But Jehoshabeath the king’s daughter took Joash the son of Ahaziah, and stole him from among the king’s sons who were being put to death, and placed him and his nurse in the bedroom. So Jehoshabeath, the daughter of King Jehoram, the wife of Jehoiada the priest (for she was the sister of Ahaziah), hid him from Athaliah so that she would not put him to death. 
          12      He was hidden with them in the house of God six years while Athaliah reigned over the land. 




Chapter 23


Jehoiada Sets Joash on the Throne of Judah

          1      Now in the seventh year Jehoiada strengthened himself, and took captains of hundreds: Azariah the son of Jeroham, Ishmael the son of Johanan, Azariah the son of Obed, Maaseiah the son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat the son of Zichri, and they entered into a covenant with him. 
          2      They went throughout Judah and gathered the Levites from all the cities of Judah, and the heads of the fathers’ households of Israel, and they came to Jerusalem. 
          3      Then all the assembly made a covenant with the king in the house of God. And Jehoiada said to them, “Behold, the king’s son shall reign, as the LORD has spoken concerning the sons of David. 
          4      “This is the thing which you shall do: one third of you, of the priests and Levites who come in on the sabbath, shall be gatekeepers, 
          5      and one third shall be at the king’s house, and a third at the Gate of the Foundation; and all the people shall be in the courts of the house of the LORD. 
          6      “But let no one enter the house of the LORD except the priests and the ministering Levites; they may enter, for they are holy. And let all the people keep the charge of the LORD. 
          7      “The Levites will surround the king, each man with his weapons in his hand; and whoever enters the house, let him be killed. Thus be with the king when he comes in and when he goes out.” 
          8      So the Levites and all Judah did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded. And each one of them took his men who were to come in on the sabbath, with those who were to go out on the sabbath, for Jehoiada the priest did not dismiss any of the divisions. 
          9      Then Jehoiada the priest gave to the captains of hundreds the spears and the large and small shields which had been King David’s, which were in the house of God. 
          10      He stationed all the people, each man with his weapon in his hand, from the right side of the house to the left side of the house, by the altar and by the house, around the king. 
          11      Then they brought out the king’s son and put the crown on him, and gave him the testimony and made him king. And Jehoiada and his sons anointed him and said, “Long live the king!” 

Athaliah Murdered

          12      When Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and praising the king, she came into the house of the LORD to the people. 
          13      She looked, and behold, the king was standing by his pillar at the entrance, and the captains and the trumpeters were beside the king. And all the people of the land rejoiced and blew trumpets, the singers with their musical instruments leading the praise. Then Athaliah tore her clothes and said, “Treason! Treason!” 
          14      Jehoiada the priest brought out the captains of hundreds who were appointed over the army and said to them, “Bring her out between the ranks; and whoever follows her, put to death with the sword.” For the priest said, “Let her not be put to death in the house of the LORD.” 
          15      So they seized her, and when she arrived at the entrance of the Horse Gate of the king’s house, they put her to death there. 

Reforms Carried Out

          16      Then Jehoiada made a covenant between himself and all the people and the king, that they would be the LORD’S people. 
          17      And all the people went to the house of Baal and tore it down, and they broke in pieces his altars and his images, and killed Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars. 
          18      Moreover, Jehoiada placed the offices of the house of the LORD under the authority of the Levitical priests, whom David had assigned over the house of the LORD, to offer the burnt offerings of the LORD, as it is written in the law of Moses—with rejoicing and singing according to the order of David. 
          19      He stationed the gatekeepers of the house of the LORD, so that no one would enter who was in any way unclean. 
          20      He took the captains of hundreds, the nobles, the rulers of the people and all the people of the land, and brought the king down from the house of the LORD, and came through the upper gate to the king’s house. And they placed the king upon the royal throne. 
          21      So all of the people of the land rejoiced and the city was quiet. For they had put Athaliah to death with the sword. 




Chapter 24


Young Joash Influenced by Jehoiada

          1      Joash was seven years old when he became king, and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Zibiah from Beersheba. 
          2      Joash did what was right in the sight of the LORD all the days of Jehoiada the priest. 
          3      Jehoiada took two wives for him, and he became the father of sons and daughters. 

Faithless Priests

          4      Now it came about after this that Joash decided to restore the house of the LORD. 
          5      He gathered the priests and Levites and said to them, “Go out to the cities of Judah and collect money from all Israel to repair the house of your God annually, and you shall do the matter quickly.” But the Levites did not act quickly. 
          6      So the king summoned Jehoiada the chief priest and said to him, “Why have you not required the Levites to bring in from Judah and from Jerusalem the levy fixed by Moses the servant of the LORD on the congregation of Israel for the tent of the testimony?” 
          7      For the sons of the wicked Athaliah had broken into the house of God and even used the holy things of the house of the LORD for the Baals. 

Temple Repaired

          8      So the king commanded, and they made a chest and set it outside by the gate of the house of the LORD. 
          9      They made a proclamation in Judah and Jerusalem to bring to the LORD the levy fixed by Moses the servant of God on Israel in the wilderness. 
          10      All the officers and all the people rejoiced and brought in their levies and dropped them into the chest until they had finished. 
          11      It came about whenever the chest was brought in to the king’s officer by the Levites, and when they saw that there was much money, then the king’s scribe and the chief priest’s officer would come, empty the chest, take it, and return it to its place. Thus they did daily and collected much money. 
          12      The king and Jehoiada gave it to those who did the work of the service of the house of the LORD; and they hired masons and carpenters to restore the house of the LORD, and also workers in iron and bronze to repair the house of the LORD. 
          13      So the workmen labored, and the repair work progressed in their hands, and they restored the house of God according to its specifications and strengthened it. 
          14      When they had finished, they brought the rest of the money before the king and Jehoiada; and it was made into utensils for the house of the LORD, utensils for the service and the burnt offering, and pans and utensils of gold and silver. And they offered burnt offerings in the house of the LORD continually all the days of Jehoiada. 
          15      Now when Jehoiada reached a ripe old age he died; he was one hundred and thirty years old at his death. 
          16      They buried him in the city of David among the kings, because he had done well in Israel and to God and His house. 
          17      But after the death of Jehoiada the officials of Judah came and bowed down to the king, and the king listened to them. 
          18      They abandoned the house of the LORD, the God of their fathers, and served the Asherim and the idols; so wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem for this their guilt. 
          19      Yet He sent prophets to them to bring them back to the LORD; though they testified against them, they would not listen. 

Joash Murders Son of Jehoiada

          20      Then the Spirit of God came on Zechariah the son of Jehoiada the priest; and he stood above the people and said to them, “Thus God has said, ‘Why do you transgress the commandments of the LORD and do not prosper? Because you have forsaken the LORD, He has also forsaken you.’ ” 
          21      So they conspired against him and at the command of the king they stoned him to death in the court of the house of the LORD. 
          22      Thus Joash the king did not remember the kindness which his father Jehoiada had shown him, but he murdered his son. And as he died he said, “May the LORD see and avenge!” 

Aram Invades and Defeats Judah

          23      Now it happened at the turn of the year that the army of the Arameans came up against him; and they came to Judah and Jerusalem, destroyed all the officials of the people from among the people, and sent all their spoil to the king of Damascus. 
          24      Indeed the army of the Arameans came with a small number of men; yet the LORD delivered a very great army into their hands, because they had forsaken the LORD, the God of their fathers. Thus they executed judgment on Joash. 
          25      When they had departed from him (for they left him very sick), his own servants conspired against him because of the blood of the son of Jehoiada the priest, and murdered him on his bed. So he died, and they buried him in the city of David, but they did not bury him in the tombs of the kings. 
          26      Now these are those who conspired against him: Zabad the son of Shimeath the Ammonitess, and Jehozabad the son of Shimrith the Moabitess. 
          27      As to his sons and the many oracles against him and the rebuilding of the house of God, behold, they are written in the treatise of the Book of the Kings. Then Amaziah his son became king in his place. 




Chapter 25


Amaziah Succeeds Joash in Judah

          1      Amaziah was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem. 
          2      He did right in the sight of the LORD, yet not with a whole heart. 
          3      Now it came about as soon as the kingdom was firmly in his grasp, that he killed his servants who had slain his father the king. 
          4      However, he did not put their children to death, but did as it is written in the law in the book of Moses, which the LORD commanded, saying, “Fathers shall not be put to death for sons, nor sons be put to death for fathers, but each shall be put to death for his own sin.” 

Amaziah Defeats Edomites

          5      Moreover, Amaziah assembled Judah and appointed them according to their fathers’ households under commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds throughout Judah and Benjamin; and he took a census of those from twenty years old and upward and found them to be 300,000 choice men, able to go to war and handle spear and shield. 
          6      He hired also 100,000 valiant warriors out of Israel for one hundred talents of silver. 
          7      But a man of God came to him saying, “O king, do not let the army of Israel go with you, for the LORD is not with Israel nor with any of the sons of Ephraim. 
          8      “But if you do go, do it, be strong for the battle; yet God will bring you down before the enemy, for God has power to help and to bring down.” 
          9      Amaziah said to the man of God, “But what shall we do for the hundred talents which I have given to the troops of Israel?” And the man of God answered, “The LORD has much more to give you than this.” 
          10      Then Amaziah dismissed them, the troops which came to him from Ephraim, to go home; so their anger burned against Judah and they returned home in fierce anger. 
          11      Now Amaziah strengthened himself and led his people forth, and went to the Valley of Salt and struck down 10,000 of the sons of Seir. 
          12      The sons of Judah also captured 10,000 alive and brought them to the top of the cliff and threw them down from the top of the cliff, so that they were all dashed to pieces. 
          13      But the troops whom Amaziah sent back from going with him to battle, raided the cities of Judah, from Samaria to Beth-horon, and struck down 3,000 of them and plundered much spoil. 

Amaziah Rebuked for Idolatry

          14      Now after Amaziah came from slaughtering the Edomites, he brought the gods of the sons of Seir, set them up as his gods, bowed down before them and burned incense to them. 
          15      Then the anger of the LORD burned against Amaziah, and He sent him a prophet who said to him, “Why have you sought the gods of the people who have not delivered their own people from your hand?” 
          16      As he was talking with him, the king said to him, “Have we appointed you a royal counselor? Stop! Why should you be struck down?” Then the prophet stopped and said, “I know that God has planned to destroy you, because you have done this and have not listened to my counsel.” 

Amaziah Defeated by Joash of Israel

          17      Then Amaziah king of Judah took counsel and sent to Joash the son of Jehoahaz the son of Jehu, the king of Israel, saying, “Come, let us face each other.” 
          18      Joash the king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, “The thorn bush which was in Lebanon sent to the cedar which was in Lebanon, saying, ‘Give your daughter to my son in marriage.’ But there passed by a wild beast that was in Lebanon and trampled the thorn bush. 
          19      “You said, ‘Behold, you have defeated Edom.’ And your heart has become proud in boasting. Now stay at home; for why should you provoke trouble so that you, even you, would fall and Judah with you?” 
          20      But Amaziah would not listen, for it was from God, that He might deliver them into the hand of Joash because they had sought the gods of Edom. 
          21      So Joash king of Israel went up, and he and Amaziah king of Judah faced each other at Beth-shemesh, which belonged to Judah. 
          22      Judah was defeated by Israel, and they fled each to his tent. 
          23      Then Joash king of Israel captured Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Joash the son of Jehoahaz, at Beth-shemesh, and brought him to Jerusalem and tore down the wall of Jerusalem from the Gate of Ephraim to the Corner Gate, 400 cubits. 
          24      He took all the gold and silver and all the utensils which were found in the house of God with Obed-edom, and the treasures of the king’s house, the hostages also, and returned to Samaria. 
          25      And Amaziah, the son of Joash king of Judah, lived fifteen years after the death of Joash, son of Jehoahaz, king of Israel. 
          26      Now the rest of the acts of Amaziah, from first to last, behold, are they not written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel? 
          27      From the time that Amaziah turned away from following the LORD they conspired against him in Jerusalem, and he fled to Lachish; but they sent after him to Lachish and killed him there. 
          28      Then they brought him on horses and buried him with his fathers in the city of Judah. 




Chapter 26


Uzziah Succeeds Amaziah in Judah

          1      And all the people of Judah took Uzziah, who was sixteen years old, and made him king in the place of his father Amaziah. 
          2      He built Eloth and restored it to Judah after the king slept with his fathers. 
          3      Uzziah was sixteen years old when he became king, and he reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem; and his mother’s name was Jechiliah of Jerusalem. 
          4      He did right in the sight of the LORD according to all that his father Amaziah had done. 
          5      He continued to seek God in the days of Zechariah, who had understanding through the vision of God; and as long as he sought the LORD, God prospered him. 

Uzziah Succeeds in War

          6      Now he went out and warred against the Philistines, and broke down the wall of Gath and the wall of Jabneh and the wall of Ashdod; and he built cities in the area of Ashdod and among the Philistines. 
          7      God helped him against the Philistines, and against the Arabians who lived in Gur-baal, and the Meunites. 
          8      The Ammonites also gave tribute to Uzziah, and his fame extended to the border of Egypt, for he became very strong. 
          9      Moreover, Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the Corner Gate and at the Valley Gate and at the corner buttress and fortified them. 
          10      He built towers in the wilderness and hewed many cisterns, for he had much livestock, both in the lowland and in the plain. He also had plowmen and vinedressers in the hill country and the fertile fields, for he loved the soil. 
          11      Moreover, Uzziah had an army ready for battle, which entered combat by divisions according to the number of their muster, prepared by Jeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the official, under the direction of Hananiah, one of the king’s officers. 
          12      The total number of the heads of the households, of valiant warriors, was 2,600. 
          13      Under their direction was an elite army of 307,500, who could wage war with great power, to help the king against the enemy. 
          14      Moreover, Uzziah prepared for all the army shields, spears, helmets, body armor, bows and sling stones. 
          15      In Jerusalem he made engines of war invented by skillful men to be on the towers and on the corners for the purpose of shooting arrows and great stones. Hence his fame spread afar, for he was marvelously helped until he was strong. 

Pride Is Uzziah’s Undoing

          16      But when he became strong, his heart was so proud that he acted corruptly, and he was unfaithful to the LORD his God, for he entered the temple of the LORD to burn incense on the altar of incense. 
          17      Then Azariah the priest entered after him and with him eighty priests of the LORD, valiant men. 
          18      They opposed Uzziah the king and said to him, “It is not for you, Uzziah, to burn incense to the LORD, but for the priests, the sons of Aaron who are consecrated to burn incense. Get out of the sanctuary, for you have been unfaithful and will have no honor from the LORD God.” 
          19      But Uzziah, with a censer in his hand for burning incense, was enraged; and while he was enraged with the priests, the leprosy broke out on his forehead before the priests in the house of the LORD, beside the altar of incense. 
          20      Azariah the chief priest and all the priests looked at him, and behold, he was leprous on his forehead; and they hurried him out of there, and he himself also hastened to get out because the LORD had smitten him. 
          21      King Uzziah was a leper to the day of his death; and he lived in a separate house, being a leper, for he was cut off from the house of the LORD. And Jotham his son was over the king’s house judging the people of the land. 
          22      Now the rest of the acts of Uzziah, first to last, the prophet Isaiah, the son of Amoz, has written. 
          23      So Uzziah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the field of the grave which belonged to the kings, for they said, “He is a leper.” And Jotham his son became king in his place. 




Chapter 27


Jotham Succeeds Uzziah in Judah

          1      Jotham was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Jerushah the daughter of Zadok. 
          2      He did right in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his father Uzziah had done; however he did not enter the temple of the LORD. But the people continued acting corruptly. 
          3      He built the upper gate of the house of the LORD, and he built extensively the wall of Ophel. 
          4      Moreover, he built cities in the hill country of Judah, and he built fortresses and towers on the wooded hills. 
          5      He fought also with the king of the Ammonites and prevailed over them so that the Ammonites gave him during that year one hundred talents of silver, ten thousand kors of wheat and ten thousand of barley. The Ammonites also paid him this amount in the second and in the third year. 
          6      So Jotham became mighty because he ordered his ways before the LORD his God. 
          7      Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, even all his wars and his acts, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah. 
          8      He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. 
          9      And Jotham slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David; and Ahaz his son became king in his place. 




Chapter 28


Ahaz Succeeds Jotham in Judah

          1      Ahaz was twenty years old when he became king, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem; and he did not do right in the sight of the LORD as David his father had done. 
          2      But he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel; he also made molten images for the Baals. 
          3      Moreover, he burned incense in the valley of Ben-hinnom and burned his sons in fire, according to the abominations of the nations whom the LORD had driven out before the sons of Israel. 
          4      He sacrificed and burned incense on the high places, on the hills and under every green tree. 

Judah Is Invaded

          5      Wherefore, the LORD his God delivered him into the hand of the king of Aram; and they defeated him and carried away from him a great number of captives and brought them to Damascus. And he was also delivered into the hand of the king of Israel, who inflicted him with heavy casualties. 
          6      For Pekah the son of Remaliah slew in Judah 120,000 in one day, all valiant men, because they had forsaken the LORD God of their fathers. 
          7      And Zichri, a mighty man of Ephraim, slew Maaseiah the king’s son and Azrikam the ruler of the house and Elkanah the second to the king. 
          8      The sons of Israel carried away captive of their brethren 200,000 women, sons and daughters; and they took also a great deal of spoil from them, and brought the spoil to Samaria. 
          9      But a prophet of the LORD was there, whose name was Oded; and he went out to meet the army which came to Samaria and said to them, “Behold, because the LORD, the God of your fathers, was angry with Judah, He has delivered them into your hand, and you have slain them in a rage which has even reached heaven. 
          10      “Now you are proposing to subjugate for yourselves the people of Judah and Jerusalem for male and female slaves. Surely, do you not have transgressions of your own against the LORD your God? 
          11      “Now therefore, listen to me and return the captives whom you captured from your brothers, for the burning anger of the LORD is against you.” 
          12      Then some of the heads of the sons of Ephraim—Azariah the son of Johanan, Berechiah the son of Meshillemoth, Jehizkiah the son of Shallum, and Amasa the son of Hadlai—arose against those who were coming from the battle, 
          13      and said to them, “You must not bring the captives in here, for you are proposing to bring upon us guilt against the LORD adding to our sins and our guilt; for our guilt is great so that His burning anger is against Israel.” 
          14      So the armed men left the captives and the spoil before the officers and all the assembly. 
          15      Then the men who were designated by name arose, took the captives, and they clothed all their naked ones from the spoil; and they gave them clothes and sandals, fed them and gave them drink, anointed them with oil, led all their feeble ones on donkeys, and brought them to Jericho, the city of palm trees, to their brothers; then they returned to Samaria. 

Compromise with Assyria

          16      At that time King Ahaz sent to the kings of Assyria for help. 
          17      For again the Edomites had come and attacked Judah and carried away captives. 
          18      The Philistines also had invaded the cities of the lowland and of the Negev of Judah, and had taken Beth-shemesh, Aijalon, Gederoth, and Soco with its villages, Timnah with its villages, and Gimzo with its villages, and they settled there. 
          19      For the LORD humbled Judah because of Ahaz king of Israel, for he had brought about a lack of restraint in Judah and was very unfaithful to the LORD. 
          20      So Tilgath-pilneser king of Assyria came against him and afflicted him instead of strengthening him. 
          21      Although Ahaz took a portion out of the house of the LORD and out of the palace of the king and of the princes, and gave it to the king of Assyria, it did not help him. 
          22      Now in the time of his distress this same King Ahaz became yet more unfaithful to the LORD. 
          23      For he sacrificed to the gods of Damascus which had defeated him, and said, “Because the gods of the kings of Aram helped them, I will sacrifice to them that they may help me.” But they became the downfall of him and all Israel. 
          24      Moreover, when Ahaz gathered together the utensils of the house of God, he cut the utensils of the house of God in pieces; and he closed the doors of the house of the LORD and made altars for himself in every corner of Jerusalem. 
          25      In every city of Judah he made high places to burn incense to other gods, and provoked the LORD, the God of his fathers, to anger. 
          26      Now the rest of his acts and all his ways, from first to last, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel. 
          27      So Ahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city, in Jerusalem, for they did not bring him into the tombs of the kings of Israel; and Hezekiah his son reigned in his place. 




Chapter 29


Hezekiah Succeeds Ahaz in Judah

          1      Hezekiah became king when he was twenty-five years old; and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Abijah, the daughter of Zechariah. 
          2      He did right in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his father David had done. 
          3      In the first year of his reign, in the first month, he opened the doors of the house of the LORD and repaired them. 
          4      He brought in the priests and the Levites and gathered them into the square on the east. 

Reforms Begun

          5      Then he said to them, “Listen to me, O Levites. Consecrate yourselves now, and consecrate the house of the LORD, the God of your fathers, and carry the uncleanness out from the holy place. 
          6      “For our fathers have been unfaithful and have done evil in the sight of the LORD our God, and have forsaken Him and turned their faces away from the dwelling place of the LORD, and have turned their backs. 
          7      “They have also shut the doors of the porch and put out the lamps, and have not burned incense or offered burnt offerings in the holy place to the God of Israel. 
          8      “Therefore the wrath of the LORD was against Judah and Jerusalem, and He has made them an object of terror, of horror, and of hissing, as you see with your own eyes. 
          9      “For behold, our fathers have fallen by the sword, and our sons and our daughters and our wives are in captivity for this. 
          10      “Now it is in my heart to make a covenant with the LORD God of Israel, that His burning anger may turn away from us. 
          11      “My sons, do not be negligent now, for the LORD has chosen you to stand before Him, to minister to Him, and to be His ministers and burn incense.” 
          12      Then the Levites arose: Mahath, the son of Amasai and Joel the son of Azariah, from the sons of the Kohathites; and from the sons of Merari, Kish the son of Abdi and Azariah the son of Jehallelel; and from the Gershonites, Joah the son of Zimmah and Eden the son of Joah; 
          13      and from the sons of Elizaphan, Shimri and Jeiel; and from the sons of Asaph, Zechariah and Mattaniah; 
          14      and from the sons of Heman, Jehiel and Shimei; and from the sons of Jeduthun, Shemaiah and Uzziel. 
          15      They assembled their brothers, consecrated themselves, and went in to cleanse the house of the LORD, according to the commandment of the king by the words of the LORD. 
          16      So the priests went in to the inner part of the house of the LORD to cleanse it, and every unclean thing which they found in the temple of the LORD they brought out to the court of the house of the LORD. Then the Levites received it to carry out to the Kidron valley. 
          17      Now they began the consecration on the first day of the first month, and on the eighth day of the month they entered the porch of the LORD. Then they consecrated the house of the LORD in eight days, and finished on the sixteenth day of the first month. 
          18      Then they went in to King Hezekiah and said, “We have cleansed the whole house of the LORD, the altar of burnt offering with all of its utensils, and the table of showbread with all of its utensils. 
          19      “Moreover, all the utensils which King Ahaz had discarded during his reign in his unfaithfulness, we have prepared and consecrated; and behold, they are before the altar of the LORD.” 

Hezekiah Restores Temple Worship

          20      Then King Hezekiah arose early and assembled the princes of the city and went up to the house of the LORD. 
          21      They brought seven bulls, seven rams, seven lambs and seven male goats for a sin offering for the kingdom, the sanctuary, and Judah. And he ordered the priests, the sons of Aaron, to offer them on the altar of the LORD. 
          22      So they slaughtered the bulls, and the priests took the blood and sprinkled it on the altar. They also slaughtered the rams and sprinkled the blood on the altar; they slaughtered the lambs also and sprinkled the blood on the altar. 
          23      Then they brought the male goats of the sin offering before the king and the assembly, and they laid their hands on them. 
          24      The priests slaughtered them and purged the altar with their blood to atone for all Israel, for the king ordered the burnt offering and the sin offering for all Israel. 
          25      He then stationed the Levites in the house of the LORD with cymbals, with harps and with lyres, according to the command of David and of Gad the king’s seer, and of Nathan the prophet; for the command was from the LORD through His prophets. 
          26      The Levites stood with the musical instruments of David, and the priests with the trumpets. 
          27      Then Hezekiah gave the order to offer the burnt offering on the altar. When the burnt offering began, the song to the LORD also began with the trumpets, accompanied by the instruments of David, king of Israel. 
          28      While the whole assembly worshiped, the singers also sang and the trumpets sounded; all this continued until the burnt offering was finished. 
          29      Now at the completion of the burnt offerings, the king and all who were present with him bowed down and worshiped. 
          30      Moreover, King Hezekiah and the officials ordered the Levites to sing praises to the LORD with the words of David and Asaph the seer. So they sang praises with joy, and bowed down and worshiped. 
          31      Then Hezekiah said, “Now that you have consecrated yourselves to the LORD, come near and bring sacrifices and thank offerings to the house of the LORD.” And the assembly brought sacrifices and thank offerings, and all those who were willing brought burnt offerings. 
          32      The number of the burnt offerings which the assembly brought was 70 bulls, 100 rams, and 200 lambs; all these were for a burnt offering to the LORD. 
          33      The consecrated things were 600 bulls and 3,000 sheep. 
          34      But the priests were too few, so that they were unable to skin all the burnt offerings; therefore their brothers the Levites helped them until the work was completed and until the other priests had consecrated themselves. For the Levites were more conscientious to consecrate themselves than the priests. 
          35      There were also many burnt offerings with the fat of the peace offerings and with the libations for the burnt offerings. Thus the service of the house of the LORD was established again. 
          36      Then Hezekiah and all the people rejoiced over what God had prepared for the people, because the thing came about suddenly. 




Chapter 30


All Israel Invited to the Passover

          1      Now Hezekiah sent to all Israel and Judah and wrote letters also to Ephraim and Manasseh, that they should come to the house of the LORD at Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover to the LORD God of Israel. 
          2      For the king and his princes and all the assembly in Jerusalem had decided to celebrate the Passover in the second month, 
          3      since they could not celebrate it at that time, because the priests had not consecrated themselves in sufficient numbers, nor had the people been gathered to Jerusalem. 
          4      Thus the thing was right in the sight of the king and all the assembly. 
          5      So they established a decree to circulate a proclamation throughout all Israel from Beersheba even to Dan, that they should come to celebrate the Passover to the LORD God of Israel at Jerusalem. For they had not celebrated it in great numbers as it was prescribed. 
          6      The couriers went throughout all Israel and Judah with the letters from the hand of the king and his princes, even according to the command of the king, saying, “O sons of Israel, return to the LORD God of Abraham, Isaac and Israel, that He may return to those of you who escaped and are left from the hand of the kings of Assyria. 
          7      “Do not be like your fathers and your brothers, who were unfaithful to the LORD God of their fathers, so that He made them a horror, as you see. 
          8      “Now do not stiffen your neck like your fathers, but yield to the LORD and enter His sanctuary which He has consecrated forever, and serve the LORD your God, that His burning anger may turn away from you. 
          9      “For if you return to the LORD, your brothers and your sons will find compassion before those who led them captive and will return to this land. For the LORD your God is gracious and compassionate, and will not turn His face away from you if you return to Him.” 
          10      So the couriers passed from city to city through the country of Ephraim and Manasseh, and as far as Zebulun, but they laughed them to scorn and mocked them. 
          11      Nevertheless some men of Asher, Manasseh and Zebulun humbled themselves and came to Jerusalem. 
          12      The hand of God was also on Judah to give them one heart to do what the king and the princes commanded by the word of the LORD. 

Passover Reinstituted

          13      Now many people were gathered at Jerusalem to celebrate the Feast of Unleavened Bread in the second month, a very large assembly. 
          14      They arose and removed the altars which were in Jerusalem; they also removed all the incense altars and cast them into the brook Kidron. 
          15      Then they slaughtered the Passover lambs on the fourteenth of the second month. And the priests and Levites were ashamed of themselves, and consecrated themselves and brought burnt offerings to the house of the LORD. 
          16      They stood at their stations after their custom, according to the law of Moses the man of God; the priests sprinkled the blood which they received from the hand of the Levites. 
          17      For there were many in the assembly who had not consecrated themselves; therefore, the Levites were over the slaughter of the Passover lambs for everyone who was unclean, in order to consecrate them to the LORD. 
          18      For a multitude of the people, even many from Ephraim and Manasseh, Issachar and Zebulun, had not purified themselves, yet they ate the Passover otherwise than prescribed. For Hezekiah prayed for them, saying, “May the good LORD pardon 
          19      everyone who prepares his heart to seek God, the LORD God of his fathers, though not according to the purification rules of the sanctuary.” 
          20      So the LORD heard Hezekiah and healed the people. 
          21      The sons of Israel present in Jerusalem celebrated the Feast of Unleavened Bread for seven days with great joy, and the Levites and the priests praised the LORD day after day with loud instruments to the LORD. 
          22      Then Hezekiah spoke encouragingly to all the Levites who showed good insight in the things of the LORD. So they ate for the appointed seven days, sacrificing peace offerings and giving thanks to the LORD God of their fathers. 
          23      Then the whole assembly decided to celebrate the feast another seven days, so they celebrated the seven days with joy. 
          24      For Hezekiah king of Judah had contributed to the assembly 1,000 bulls and 7,000 sheep, and the princes had contributed to the assembly 1,000 bulls and 10,000 sheep; and a large number of priests consecrated themselves. 
          25      All the assembly of Judah rejoiced, with the priests and the Levites and all the assembly that came from Israel, both the sojourners who came from the land of Israel and those living in Judah. 
          26      So there was great joy in Jerusalem, because there was nothing like this in Jerusalem since the days of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel. 
          27      Then the Levitical priests arose and blessed the people; and their voice was heard and their prayer came to His holy dwelling place, to heaven. 




Chapter 31


Idols Are Destroyed

          1      Now when all this was finished, all Israel who were present went out to the cities of Judah, broke the pillars in pieces, cut down the Asherim and pulled down the high places and the altars throughout all Judah and Benjamin, as well as in Ephraim and Manasseh, until they had destroyed them all. Then all the sons of Israel returned to their cities, each to his possession. 
          2      And Hezekiah appointed the divisions of the priests and the Levites by their divisions, each according to his service, both the priests and the Levites, for burnt offerings and for peace offerings, to minister and to give thanks and to praise in the gates of the camp of the LORD. 

Reforms Continued

          3      He also appointed the king’s portion of his goods for the burnt offerings, namely, for the morning and evening burnt offerings, and the burnt offerings for the sabbaths and for the new moons and for the fixed festivals, as it is written in the law of the LORD. 
          4      Also he commanded the people who lived in Jerusalem to give the portion due to the priests and the Levites, that they might devote themselves to the law of the LORD. 
          5      As soon as the order spread, the sons of Israel provided in abundance the first fruits of grain, new wine, oil, honey and of all the produce of the field; and they brought in abundantly the tithe of all. 
          6      The sons of Israel and Judah who lived in the cities of Judah also brought in the tithe of oxen and sheep, and the tithe of sacred gifts which were consecrated to the LORD their God, and placed them in heaps. 
          7      In the third month they began to make the heaps, and finished them by the seventh month. 
          8      When Hezekiah and the rulers came and saw the heaps, they blessed the LORD and His people Israel. 
          9      Then Hezekiah questioned the priests and the Levites concerning the heaps. 
          10      Azariah the chief priest of the house of Zadok said to him, “Since the contributions began to be brought into the house of the LORD, we have had enough to eat with plenty left over, for the LORD has blessed His people, and this great quantity is left over.” 
          11      Then Hezekiah commanded them to prepare rooms in the house of the LORD, and they prepared them. 
          12      They faithfully brought in the contributions and the tithes and the consecrated things; and Conaniah the Levite was the officer in charge of them and his brother Shimei was second. 
          13      Jehiel, Azaziah, Nahath, Asahel, Jerimoth, Jozabad, Eliel, Ismachiah, Mahath and Benaiah were overseers under the authority of Conaniah and Shimei his brother by the appointment of King Hezekiah, and Azariah was the chief officer of the house of God. 
          14      Kore the son of Imnah the Levite, the keeper of the eastern gate, was over the freewill offerings of God, to apportion the contributions for the LORD and the most holy things. 
          15      Under his authority were Eden, Miniamin, Jeshua, Shemaiah, Amariah and Shecaniah in the cities of the priests, to distribute faithfully their portions to their brothers by divisions, whether great or small, 
          16      without regard to their genealogical enrollment, to the males from thirty years old and upward—everyone who entered the house of the LORD for his daily obligations—for their work in their duties according to their divisions; 
          17      as well as the priests who were enrolled genealogically according to their fathers’ households, and the Levites from twenty years old and upwards, by their duties and their divisions. 
          18      The genealogical enrollment included all their little children, their wives, their sons and their daughters, for the whole assembly, for they consecrated themselves faithfully in holiness. 
          19      Also for the sons of Aaron the priests who were in the pasture lands of their cities, or in each and every city, there were men who were designated by name to distribute portions to every male among the priests and to everyone genealogically enrolled among the Levites. 
          20      Thus Hezekiah did throughout all Judah; and he did what was good, right and true before the LORD his God. 
          21      Every work which he began in the service of the house of God in law and in commandment, seeking his God, he did with all his heart and prospered. 




Chapter 32


Sennacherib Invades Judah

          1      After these acts of faithfulness Sennacherib king of Assyria came and invaded Judah and besieged the fortified cities, and thought to break into them for himself. 
          2      Now when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib had come and that he intended to make war on Jerusalem, 
          3      he decided with his officers and his warriors to cut off the supply of water from the springs which were outside the city, and they helped him. 
          4      So many people assembled and stopped up all the springs and the stream which flowed through the region, saying, “Why should the kings of Assyria come and find abundant water?” 
          5      And he took courage and rebuilt all the wall that had been broken down and erected towers on it, and built another outside wall and strengthened the Millo in the city of David, and made weapons and shields in great number. 
          6      He appointed military officers over the people and gathered them to him in the square at the city gate, and spoke encouragingly to them, saying, 
          7      “Be strong and courageous, do not fear or be dismayed because of the king of Assyria nor because of all the horde that is with him; for the one with us is greater than the one with him. 
          8      “With him is only an arm of flesh, but with us is the LORD our God to help us and to fight our battles.” And the people relied on the words of Hezekiah king of Judah. 

Sennacherib Undermines Hezekiah

          9      After this Sennacherib king of Assyria sent his servants to Jerusalem while he was besieging Lachish with all his forces with him, against Hezekiah king of Judah and against all Judah who were at Jerusalem, saying, 
          10      “Thus says Sennacherib king of Assyria, ‘On what are you trusting that you are remaining in Jerusalem under siege? 
          11      ‘Is not Hezekiah misleading you to give yourselves over to die by hunger and by thirst, saying, “The LORD our God will deliver us from the hand of the king of Assyria”? 
          12      ‘Has not the same Hezekiah taken away His high places and His altars, and said to Judah and Jerusalem, “You shall worship before one altar, and on it you shall burn incense”? 
          13      ‘Do you not know what I and my fathers have done to all the peoples of the lands? Were the gods of the nations of the lands able at all to deliver their land from my hand? 
          14      ‘Who was there among all the gods of those nations which my fathers utterly destroyed who could deliver his people out of my hand, that your God should be able to deliver you from my hand? 
          15      ‘Now therefore, do not let Hezekiah deceive you or mislead you like this, and do not believe him, for no god of any nation or kingdom was able to deliver his people from my hand or from the hand of my fathers. How much less will your God deliver you from my hand?’ ” 
          16      His servants spoke further against the LORD God and against His servant Hezekiah. 
          17      He also wrote letters to insult the LORD God of Israel, and to speak against Him, saying, “As the gods of the nations of the lands have not delivered their people from my hand, so the God of Hezekiah will not deliver His people from my hand.” 
          18      They called this out with a loud voice in the language of Judah to the people of Jerusalem who were on the wall, to frighten and terrify them, so that they might take the city. 
          19      They spoke of the God of Jerusalem as of the gods of the peoples of the earth, the work of men’s hands. 

Hezekiah’s Prayer Is Answered

          20      But King Hezekiah and Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, prayed about this and cried out to heaven. 
          21      And the LORD sent an angel who destroyed every mighty warrior, commander and officer in the camp of the king of Assyria. So he returned in shame to his own land. And when he had entered the temple of his god, some of his own children killed him there with the sword. 
          22      So the LORD saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib the king of Assyria and from the hand of all others, and guided them on every side. 
          23      And many were bringing gifts to the LORD at Jerusalem and choice presents to Hezekiah king of Judah, so that he was exalted in the sight of all nations thereafter. 
          24      In those days Hezekiah became mortally ill; and he prayed to the LORD, and the LORD spoke to him and gave him a sign. 
          25      But Hezekiah gave no return for the benefit he received, because his heart was proud; therefore wrath came on him and on Judah and Jerusalem. 
          26      However, Hezekiah humbled the pride of his heart, both he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the wrath of the LORD did not come on them in the days of Hezekiah. 
          27      Now Hezekiah had immense riches and honor; and he made for himself treasuries for silver, gold, precious stones, spices, shields and all kinds of valuable articles, 
          28      storehouses also for the produce of grain, wine and oil, pens for all kinds of cattle and sheepfolds for the flocks. 
          29      He made cities for himself and acquired flocks and herds in abundance, for God had given him very great wealth. 
          30      It was Hezekiah who stopped the upper outlet of the waters of Gihon and directed them to the west side of the city of David. And Hezekiah prospered in all that he did. 
          31      Even in the matter of the envoys of the rulers of Babylon, who sent to him to inquire of the wonder that had happened in the land, God left him alone only to test him, that He might know all that was in his heart. 
          32      Now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah and his deeds of devotion, behold, they are written in the vision of Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel. 
          33      So Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the upper section of the tombs of the sons of David; and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem honored him at his death. And his son Manasseh became king in his place. 




Chapter 33


Manasseh Succeeds Hezekiah in Judah

          1      Manasseh was twelve years old when he became king, and he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem. 
          2      He did evil in the sight of the LORD according to the abominations of the nations whom the LORD dispossessed before the sons of Israel. 
          3      For he rebuilt the high places which Hezekiah his father had broken down; he also erected altars for the Baals and made Asherim, and worshiped all the host of heaven and served them. 
          4      He built altars in the house of the LORD of which the LORD had said, “My name shall be in Jerusalem forever.” 
          5      For he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courts of the house of the LORD. 
          6      He made his sons pass through the fire in the valley of Ben-hinnom; and he practiced witchcraft, used divination, practiced sorcery and dealt with mediums and spiritists. He did much evil in the sight of the LORD, provoking Him to anger. 
          7      Then he put the carved image of the idol which he had made in the house of God, of which God had said to David and to Solomon his son, “In this house and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen from all the tribes of Israel, I will put My name forever; 
          8      and I will not again remove the foot of Israel from the land which I have appointed for your fathers, if only they will observe to do all that I have commanded them according to all the law, the statutes and the ordinances given through Moses.” 
          9      Thus Manasseh misled Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to do more evil than the nations whom the LORD destroyed before the sons of Israel. 

Manasseh’s Idolatry Rebuked

          10      The LORD spoke to Manasseh and his people, but they paid no attention. 
          11      Therefore the LORD brought the commanders of the army of the king of Assyria against them, and they captured Manasseh with hooks, bound him with bronze chains and took him to Babylon. 
          12      When he was in distress, he entreated the LORD his God and humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers. 
          13      When he prayed to Him, He was moved by his entreaty and heard his supplication, and brought him again to Jerusalem to his kingdom. Then Manasseh knew that the LORD was God. 
          14      Now after this he built the outer wall of the city of David on the west side of Gihon, in the valley, even to the entrance of the Fish Gate; and he encircled the Ophel with it and made it very high. Then he put army commanders in all the fortified cities of Judah. 
          15      He also removed the foreign gods and the idol from the house of the LORD, as well as all the altars which he had built on the mountain of the house of the LORD and in Jerusalem, and he threw them outside the city. 
          16      He set up the altar of the LORD and sacrificed peace offerings and thank offerings on it; and he ordered Judah to serve the LORD God of Israel. 
          17      Nevertheless the people still sacrificed in the high places, although only to the LORD their God. 
          18      Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh even his prayer to his God, and the words of the seers who spoke to him in the name of the LORD God of Israel, behold, they are among the records of the kings of Israel. 
          19      His prayer also and how God was entreated by him, and all his sin, his unfaithfulness, and the sites on which he built high places and erected the Asherim and the carved images, before he humbled himself, behold, they are written in the records of the Hozai. 
          20      So Manasseh slept with his fathers, and they buried him in his own house. And Amon his son became king in his place. 

Amon Becomes King in Judah

          21      Amon was twenty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned two years in Jerusalem. 
          22      He did evil in the sight of the LORD as Manasseh his father had done, and Amon sacrificed to all the carved images which his father Manasseh had made, and he served them. 
          23      Moreover, he did not humble himself before the LORD as his father Manasseh had done, but Amon multiplied guilt. 
          24      Finally his servants conspired against him and put him to death in his own house. 
          25      But the people of the land killed all the conspirators against King Amon, and the people of the land made Josiah his son king in his place. 




Chapter 34


Josiah Succeeds Amon in Judah

          1      Josiah was eight years old when he became king, and he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem. 
          2      He did right in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the ways of his father David and did not turn aside to the right or to the left. 
          3      For in the eighth year of his reign while he was still a youth, he began to seek the God of his father David; and in the twelfth year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem of the high places, the Asherim, the carved images and the molten images. 
          4      They tore down the altars of the Baals in his presence, and the incense altars that were high above them he chopped down; also the Asherim, the carved images and the molten images he broke in pieces and ground to powder and scattered it on the graves of those who had sacrificed to them. 
          5      Then he burned the bones of the priests on their altars and purged Judah and Jerusalem. 
          6      In the cities of Manasseh, Ephraim, Simeon, even as far as Naphtali, in their surrounding ruins, 
          7      he also tore down the altars and beat the Asherim and the carved images into powder, and chopped down all the incense altars throughout the land of Israel. Then he returned to Jerusalem. 

Josiah Repairs the Temple

          8      Now in the eighteenth year of his reign, when he had purged the land and the house, he sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, and Maaseiah an official of the city, and Joah the son of Joahaz the recorder, to repair the house of the LORD his God. 
          9      They came to Hilkiah the high priest and delivered the money that was brought into the house of God, which the Levites, the doorkeepers, had collected from Manasseh and Ephraim, and from all the remnant of Israel, and from all Judah and Benjamin and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
          10      Then they gave it into the hands of the workmen who had the oversight of the house of the LORD, and the workmen who were working in the house of the LORD used it to restore and repair the house. 
          11      They in turn gave it to the carpenters and to the builders to buy quarried stone and timber for couplings and to make beams for the houses which the kings of Judah had let go to ruin. 
          12      The men did the work faithfully with foremen over them to supervise: Jahath and Obadiah, the Levites of the sons of Merari, Zechariah and Meshullam of the sons of the Kohathites, and the Levites, all who were skillful with musical instruments. 
          13      They were also over the burden bearers, and supervised all the workmen from job to job; and some of the Levites were scribes and officials and gatekeepers. 

Hilkiah Discovers Lost Book of the Law

          14      When they were bringing out the money which had been brought into the house of the LORD, Hilkiah the priest found the book of the law of the LORD given by Moses. 
          15      Hilkiah responded and said to Shaphan the scribe, “I have found the book of the law in the house of the LORD.” And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan. 
          16      Then Shaphan brought the book to the king and reported further word to the king, saying, “Everything that was entrusted to your servants they are doing. 
          17      “They have also emptied out the money which was found in the house of the LORD, and have delivered it into the hands of the supervisors and the workmen.” 
          18      Moreover, Shaphan the scribe told the king saying, “Hilkiah the priest gave me a book.” And Shaphan read from it in the presence of the king. 
          19      When the king heard the words of the law, he tore his clothes. 
          20      Then the king commanded Hilkiah, Ahikam the son of Shaphan, Abdon the son of Micah, Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah the king’s servant, saying, 
          21      “Go, inquire of the LORD for me and for those who are left in Israel and in Judah, concerning the words of the book which has been found; for great is the wrath of the LORD which is poured out on us because our fathers have not observed the word of the LORD, to do according to all that is written in this book.” 

Huldah, the Prophetess, Speaks

          22      So Hilkiah and those whom the king had told went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tokhath, the son of Hasrah, the keeper of the wardrobe (now she lived in Jerusalem in the Second Quarter); and they spoke to her regarding this. 
          23      She said to them, “Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, ‘Tell the man who sent you to Me, 
          24      thus says the LORD, “Behold, I am bringing evil on this place and on its inhabitants, even all the curses written in the book which they have read in the presence of the king of Judah. 
          25      “Because they have forsaken Me and have burned incense to other gods, that they might provoke Me to anger with all the works of their hands; therefore My wrath will be poured out on this place and it shall not be quenched.” ’ 
          26      “But to the king of Judah who sent you to inquire of the LORD, thus you will say to him, ‘Thus says the LORD God of Israel regarding the words which you have heard, 
          27      “Because your heart was tender and you humbled yourself before God when you heard His words against this place and against its inhabitants, and because you humbled yourself before Me, tore your clothes and wept before Me, I truly have heard you,” declares the LORD. 
          28      “Behold, I will gather you to your fathers and you shall be gathered to your grave in peace, so your eyes will not see all the evil which I will bring on this place and on its inhabitants.” ’ ” And they brought back word to the king. 
          29      Then the king sent and gathered all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem. 
          30      The king went up to the house of the LORD and all the men of Judah, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the priests, the Levites and all the people, from the greatest to the least; and he read in their hearing all the words of the book of the covenant which was found in the house of the LORD. 

Josiah’s Good Reign

          31      Then the king stood in his place and made a covenant before the LORD to walk after the LORD, and to keep His commandments and His testimonies and His statutes with all his heart and with all his soul, to perform the words of the covenant written in this book. 
          32      Moreover, he made all who were present in Jerusalem and Benjamin to stand with him. So the inhabitants of Jerusalem did according to the covenant of God, the God of their fathers. 
          33      Josiah removed all the abominations from all the lands belonging to the sons of Israel, and made all who were present in Israel to serve the LORD their God. Throughout his lifetime they did not turn from following the LORD God of their fathers. 




Chapter 35


The Passover Observed Again

          1      Then Josiah celebrated the Passover to the LORD in Jerusalem, and they slaughtered the Passover animals on the fourteenth day of the first month. 
          2      He set the priests in their offices and encouraged them in the service of the house of the LORD. 
          3      He also said to the Levites who taught all Israel and who were holy to the LORD, “Put the holy ark in the house which Solomon the son of David king of Israel built; it will be a burden on your shoulders no longer. Now serve the LORD your God and His people Israel. 
          4      “Prepare yourselves by your fathers’ households in your divisions, according to the writing of David king of Israel and according to the writing of his son Solomon. 
          5      “Moreover, stand in the holy place according to the sections of the fathers’ households of your brethren the lay people, and according to the Levites, by division of a father’s household. 
          6      “Now slaughter the Passover animals, sanctify yourselves and prepare for your brethren to do according to the word of the LORD by Moses.” 
          7      Josiah contributed to the lay people, to all who were present, flocks of lambs and young goats, all for the Passover offerings, numbering 30,000 plus 3,000 bulls; these were from the king’s possessions. 
          8      His officers also contributed a freewill offering to the people, the priests and the Levites. Hilkiah and Zechariah and Jehiel, the officials of the house of God, gave to the priests for the Passover offerings 2,600 from the flocks and 300 bulls. 
          9      Conaniah also, and Shemaiah and Nethanel, his brothers, and Hashabiah and Jeiel and Jozabad, the officers of the Levites, contributed to the Levites for the Passover offerings 5,000 from the flocks and 500 bulls. 
          10      So the service was prepared, and the priests stood at their stations and the Levites by their divisions according to the king’s command. 
          11      They slaughtered the Passover animals, and while the priests sprinkled the blood received from their hand, the Levites skinned them. 
          12      Then they removed the burnt offerings that they might give them to the sections of the fathers’ households of the lay people to present to the LORD, as it is written in the book of Moses. They did this also with the bulls. 
          13      So they roasted the Passover animals on the fire according to the ordinance, and they boiled the holy things in pots, in kettles, in pans, and carried them speedily to all the lay people. 
          14      Afterwards they prepared for themselves and for the priests, because the priests, the sons of Aaron, were offering the burnt offerings and the fat until night; therefore the Levites prepared for themselves and for the priests, the sons of Aaron. 
          15      The singers, the sons of Asaph, were also at their stations according to the command of David, Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun the king’s seer; and the gatekeepers at each gate did not have to depart from their service, because the Levites their brethren prepared for them. 
          16      So all the service of the LORD was prepared on that day to celebrate the Passover, and to offer burnt offerings on the altar of the LORD according to the command of King Josiah. 
          17      Thus the sons of Israel who were present celebrated the Passover at that time, and the Feast of Unleavened Bread seven days. 
          18      There had not been celebrated a Passover like it in Israel since the days of Samuel the prophet; nor had any of the kings of Israel celebrated such a Passover as Josiah did with the priests, the Levites, all Judah and Israel who were present, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. 
          19      In the eighteenth year of Josiah’s reign this Passover was celebrated. 

Josiah Dies in Battle

          20      After all this, when Josiah had set the temple in order, Neco king of Egypt came up to make war at Carchemish on the Euphrates, and Josiah went out to engage him. 
          21      But Neco sent messengers to him, saying, “What have we to do with each other, O King of Judah? I am not coming against you today but against the house with which I am at war, and God has ordered me to hurry. Stop for your own sake from interfering with God who is with me, so that He will not destroy you.” 
          22      However, Josiah would not turn away from him, but disguised himself in order to make war with him; nor did he listen to the words of Neco from the mouth of God, but came to make war on the plain of Megiddo. 
          23      The archers shot King Josiah, and the king said to his servants, “Take me away, for I am badly wounded.” 
          24      So his servants took him out of the chariot and carried him in the second chariot which he had, and brought him to Jerusalem where he died and was buried in the tombs of his fathers. All Judah and Jerusalem mourned for Josiah. 
          25      Then Jeremiah chanted a lament for Josiah. And all the male and female singers speak about Josiah in their lamentations to this day. And they made them an ordinance in Israel; behold, they are also written in the Lamentations. 
          26      Now the rest of the acts of Josiah and his deeds of devotion as written in the law of the LORD, 
          27      and his acts, first to last, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah. 




Chapter 36


Jehoahaz, Jehoiakim, then Jehoiachin Rule

          1      Then the people of the land took Joahaz the son of Josiah, and made him king in place of his father in Jerusalem. 
          2      Joahaz was twenty-three years old when he became king, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem. 
          3      Then the king of Egypt deposed him at Jerusalem, and imposed on the land a fine of one hundred talents of silver and one talent of gold. 
          4      The king of Egypt made Eliakim his brother king over Judah and Jerusalem, and changed his name to Jehoiakim. But Neco took Joahaz his brother and brought him to Egypt. 
          5      Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem; and he did evil in the sight of the LORD his God. 
          6      Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up against him and bound him with bronze chains to take him to Babylon. 
          7      Nebuchadnezzar also brought some of the articles of the house of the LORD to Babylon and put them in his temple at Babylon. 
          8      Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim and the abominations which he did, and what was found against him, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah. And Jehoiachin his son became king in his place. 
          9      Jehoiachin was eight years old when he became king, and he reigned three months and ten days in Jerusalem, and he did evil in the sight of the LORD. 

Captivity in Babylon Begun

          10      At the turn of the year King Nebuchadnezzar sent and brought him to Babylon with the valuable articles of the house of the LORD, and he made his kinsman Zedekiah king over Judah and Jerusalem. 

Zedekiah Rules in Judah

          11      Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. 
          12      He did evil in the sight of the LORD his God; he did not humble himself before Jeremiah the prophet who spoke for the LORD. 
          13      He also rebelled against King Nebuchadnezzar who had made him swear allegiance by God. But he stiffened his neck and hardened his heart against turning to the LORD God of Israel. 
          14      Furthermore, all the officials of the priests and the people were very unfaithful following all the abominations of the nations; and they defiled the house of the LORD which He had sanctified in Jerusalem. 
          15      The LORD, the God of their fathers, sent word to them again and again by His messengers, because He had compassion on His people and on His dwelling place; 
          16      but they continually mocked the messengers of God, despised His words and scoffed at His prophets, until the wrath of the LORD arose against His people, until there was no remedy. 
          17      Therefore He brought up against them the king of the Chaldeans who slew their young men with the sword in the house of their sanctuary, and had no compassion on young man or virgin, old man or infirm; He gave them all into his hand. 
          18      All the articles of the house of God, great and small, and the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the king and of his officers, he brought them all to Babylon. 
          19      Then they burned the house of God and broke down the wall of Jerusalem, and burned all its fortified buildings with fire and destroyed all its valuable articles. 
          20      Those who had escaped from the sword he carried away to Babylon; and they were servants to him and to his sons until the rule of the kingdom of Persia, 
          21      to fulfill the word of the LORD by the mouth of Jeremiah, until the land had enjoyed its sabbaths. All the days of its desolation it kept sabbath until seventy years were complete. 

Cyrus Permits Return

          22      Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia—in order to fulfill the word of the LORD by the mouth of Jeremiah—the LORD stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, so that he sent a proclamation throughout his kingdom, and also put it in writing, saying, 
          23      “Thus says Cyrus king of Persia, ‘The LORD, the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and He has appointed me to build Him a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Whoever there is among you of all His people, may the LORD his God be with him, and let him go up!’ ” 


New American Standard Bible: 1995 update (1995). La Habra, CA: The Lockman Foundation.


Exported from Logos Bible Study, 13:07 15 September 2026.



